

This longer compound is very low, it won't take the level that is below the level of menopause. So you actually use a safe compound, you can use it, they are very effective, so you have not to be scared by using this drug. 


But unfortunately, this therapy cannot hold you forward, also on a general sexual arterial, or a general sexual improvement. And as such, I don't know how to change so much in the female sex or health, or the diet or the need of female sex or functions. 


And actually, so we have the level of menopause in the last years, around this potential of a lot between natural menopause and aging. So we are never to forget, whenever you have a patient or a subject that is facing natural menopause, it's also women who are facing this aging process. 


And during this aging, we have learned that you have a reduction of the other important hormone, that is testosterone. It's also produced by the ovary, but also by the adrenal gland. And aging process has been associated to a progressive decline of aging as well. 


So maybe this has been linked with another important problem, sex or problem, this is related during this period with slow sex or design. So actually, both hormone are important to have a synergistic effect on your sex or health. 


And indeed, we have to break these problems, so we have to think about, in the past, we think about testosterone is the main important hormone for me, such as, actually, we are facing an era where synthetics, the evidence suggests that both of the testosterone is important for women. 


And maybe testosterone is even higher than the desire of menopause. women largely do a lot of the day and of the next cycle. So, actually, the testosterone is roughly one of the more. And if you think about what is the level of estradiol, in the follicular phase or the luteal phase, you roughly, you're not able to reach this level. 


So, actually, estradiol is even lower than testosterone. So, this means that testosterone, women are played by testosterone as well, maybe even more than estradiol. So, actually, we performed a lot of the studies showing that actually testosterone was lower than women would have the speed. 


So, this means that the lower the level of testosterone, the higher the sex or problems. And this was true not only for people who were living and it was almost obvious, but also for people who was alive. 


So actually all, even in young women, you have faced this important relationship between testosterone and sexoid dysfunction. And the main domain that was linked to testosterone is the desire domain. 


So in this methodology, we're able to show these important associations. So the testosterone level institutions associated with the FSD. But it's also, by breaking the study, whoever I want to demonstrate, thanks to Jim Fosla, that actually testosterone is able to act throughout his armature recessory in the brain. 


So it's not the problem of conventional testosterone to estradiol. Testosterone, as you perfectly know, is the precursor of estradiol. So one of my wonder whether estradiol makes a difference here. Actually Jim and Mr. 


Mazzaroli from my lab has shown together that testosterone act throughout the armature recessory in the brain motivated sexual desire in the clinical studies. And this has been also demonstrated by clinical studies. 


This is very nice, very nice by Susan's lab group showing that testosterone is able to modulate sex or function in women by using all the hormones to try it, but again, the main domain was the gender sex or desire. 


And no significant comparison factor were appreciated during this scientific alteration. So what about what the scientific society has bring us to our attention? We developed a global consensus position statement by all the society that we can here collaborate together to have this very tough work suggesting which is the field of application of testosterone therapy. 


women of what was suggested that actually female sexual alterations, sexual disorders are the main clinical condition where we can provide testosterone treatment and the global consensus position state and also state how we can provide testosterone treatment, how we can avoid testosterone treatment in this South. 


Actually, we are now moving forward and issues has made a very important update on the process of care for the use of testosterone and we have in the past 25 a new paper showing all the new evidence supporting the use of testosterone, how to use, when to use, just for your clinical practice. 


So many thanks to Sir Costen that has guided this very important update. Thank you very so much. We are going forward and trying to convince you that HSDD is not a problem always. That is the same in every women, but we have to try to figure out by using scientific basis what is the main problem with this women. 


So every women with affected by HSDD cannot be the same as another one. So we have to continue our search in the field, try to characterize this women, try to characterize also the main alterations that they have behind their sexoid problem and maybe also the main therapy that can be offered in this field. 


So in the university of Lorne we decided to explore the sexoid inventory and statutory profiles and we were referring to our inventory for HSDD by using this questionnaire. What we found was that we were able to find about 42 questionnaires to identify HSDD women, but we were also able to identify that the sexoid and statutory patterns actually depend on the testosterone level. 


So having been coming to my office has to also have a blood room just to measure the testosterone level as well as many other hormones, but the other hormones that was associated with the sexoid and statutory pattern was actually the total testosterone. 


So they higher the testosterone level, they higher the laminomial and excitatory patterns in the brain. And actually there was no relationship with the auditory pattern in this subject. And one of the most important things was to follow up on just women, so whenever we use testosterone for the treatment of HSDD we were able to demonstrate that women that has the lower laminomial excitation has also the main and the most important improvements. 


in the domain of a desired domain by using testosterone treatment. So this is another demonstration that is suggesting that testosterone is more linked in this important pathway in the brain. So actually, the low testosterone that is also associated with lower sexo-expertory pathways, or, and it is given with low sexo-expertory conditions, cause seems to have a good improvement by using testosterone treatment. 


So, beyond the story of testosterone in the brain, actually we are also knowing from many research in the field that clitoris and hemovaginal tissue are full of our major receptor, and this receptor is actually very similar to the benign tissue, so the clitoris is very similar to the benign one, and unfortunately we have a study, from the school. 


So, so little visual function as expected and high enough function and naturally we demonstrate by using the clinical model that all the micro mechanism that are providing benign tissue the ability to have the muscles and so erection are very, are also present in the cutoral tissue. 


So, actually they share exactly the same relaxant and compartmental pathways. This means that there are almost the same tissue but on one side we studied a lot, on the other side we have to study more and more to understand which is the physiology of this tissue and how we can motivate. 


For example, when we started we demonstrate that testosterone is able to, for example, positively improve the all there and with oxide related pathways and the relaxant pathway in the cutoral tissue and we also demonstrate by using this very small and understanding that using testosterone in our women, testosterone was the only therapy, systemic testosterone was able to improve the exostatic velocity of the cutoral heart rate as measured by color to improve the sound of the clitoris. 


So, actually testosterone may sound logical activity also on this postural district. And so the clitoris is the main hormonal target for testosterone in the genital tissue, it's not the only one because we have another important and also tissue, this vaginal tissue that is derived in biological areas from the same actually sheets as the clitoris. 


So, they share the common embryological origin and they are not taking the same all or another regulation during the habutus. And indeed what we demonstrate here was that vaginal tissue descends of the vagina are able to use the HGA, which is the main antigens that we have in the blood, and to convert these antigens into testosterone and DHT. 


So, promoting all of it, as all things are the activity, all the enzymes able to produce testosterone direct in the vagina. What does it mean that this tissue is able to produce its own antigens that are important for its physiology? 


And we have to take into account this consideration. This is what we call in technology. As a member we see an issue that has been technology pathway. We have to figure out that this pathway is important for producing some hormone that are so essential for the tissue that has not to be dependent on the systemic production. 


So, it's a very important part in the technological field, this consideration should be made. And indeed, what we demonstrated was that the annual sector activation of our vaginas were to motivate in some way, inflammation inside the vagina. 


We did a very nice work by using the new muscle muscle cells from the vagina, and we were able to demonstrate that cells react in terms of inflammation, and only when they were treated with PHD, they reduced their ability to increase inflammatory factors, so they reduced their inflammatory capacity. 


This means that PHD may provide a balance between formative and anti-vagina. And indeed, we move forward also from other important functions, tissue, and we observed that this tissue were motivated by the testosterone term of the relaxation and the emotional and smooth muscle activity, and indeed, the smooth muscle of the vagina tissue was reduced by a way to be, the anatomy was there, and whenever you give the testosterone, 


the smooth muscle will start to renew and to be more trophic. This means that they were able also to relax in a proper way by using a very specific tool rather than the Airtype 20Tase. But eventually, in 2025, we just published a paper showing that, as I've been calling it, so we have more and more pathways that are important to involve in regulating relaxation and contortility of the vagina tissue, 


and we should know that because whenever we know everything about physiology, we can also treat to design some target therapy for some dysfunction, but this was the adenosine pathway that was deeply involved in the relaxation of the vagina wall, but adenosine there was also... 


We saw plenty of interreceptors inside the vagina, we characterized the receptor and we also demonstrated that the testosterone is able to motivate also this pathway, so this renoxal effect. Again, testosterone makes the smooth muscle cells of the vagina tissue more healthy and more in a good condition to relax. 


But the most interesting story is that adenosine is also a crossroad, a cross-link between relaxation and inflammation, so adenosine is able to reduce the inflammatory impact inside the vagina. So, we actually are facing a condition where testosterone is able to maintain the adoxal phenotype capacity of the vagina as well, but also promote it by using this machine to maintain and contract a chronic inflammatory factor inside the vagina. 


So, actually, we are collecting more and more evidence, such as in us. that we have to learn and to research more deeply in this field, because there is so much story to be discovered and made into to be used in the future for therapy, for target therapy in our region. 


So actually, our society, several years ago, in a very frequent manner, decided to state that the analogies were important for the treatment to no gender in the seat of the menopause. And so we made this an expert consensus panel, right here, by suggesting some specific therapy just based on what the clinical treatment evidence was suggesting us. 


So thank you for all the colleagues, for making this very important piece of work and piece of science for our society. So actually, these two endocrine alteration can be linked to FSD, that we have also, for example, the conditional counter to the violence deficiency, that is a dramatic link to infertility and can also be linked to sexual problems. 


A very nice meta-analysis showing that this condition is associated with the reducer desire as application of the suspension, but also increases arunia. So actually, we are also starting to collect more information, special condition, that make us focus on very specific category of patient that needs some counseling for their sexual problem, because these are both important to be affected by maybe infertility condition and also sexual alterations. 


And what we also understand here, and where we treat these women with the uses of tumor, not able, for example, to revert all their uses of sexual function. So again, estrogen and all cannot do a lot of work. 


So we have... are too confined to make this supplementation in a very integrated manner. So actually, this montalis of pyrimaterin 1 and sufficiency is linked to reduction of testosterone. This is another nice, nice showing that testosterone reduced in this very special condition. 


So we have to think that these women are affected not only by reduction of estrogen, but also by reduction of testosterone. And indeed, also, the European Society for Human Reduction has developed this evidence-based guideline for pyrimaterin 1 and sufficiency, stating for the first time that maybe testosterone treatment would be an option for estrogenic pyrimaterin 1 and sufficiency, or non-etrogenic pyrimaterin 1 and sufficiency whenever you have. 


to manage equal access or desired disorders. So I think it is a big challenge that we've made and with success, so contaminating also other society with our daily testosterone. So actually also another condition, another condition with excess of oxygen, so for example, the Wollstollecovari syndrome. 


Here you have another method that has shown that you have all the domains of sexual function affected by this condition but not the desired domain. And actually we have to figure out that this condition is associated also with an increased testosterone level. 


Actually we have the last one, so I'm a proctomania. I'm a proctomania, it's another very common condition that we have in our office. And in this, we have very scanty data showing what happens to either of our patients, women in terms of sexual function. 


And in this observational perspective study was very small study showing that there was also an alteration of all the domains of the sexual domains. And it did also that whenever you treat an increased proctomania by using specific drug for this treatment, you are able to improve the female sexual function domain, so just suggesting that there was a relationship between the two conditions. 


But we actually show in the last years that this is not only a problem of proctomania is high, but there will also be a problem whenever it's low because it's a new endocrinological condition that we are starting to understand and we are not yet fully understanding what is the relationship between low and low levels. 


And all the people outside can be there and we'll keep a commission that can be there. and what endocrinologist has should be done in this field. What we found was that the number of patients come to our office for the sex of problems. 


So women with either proctinemia were affected by a reduced sex of function, but also looking at normal proctinitis patients with sex of problems are able to demonstrate that the lowest level of proctinitis so also the low proctin level was associated with a reduced and more severe sex of problems. 


So this means that maybe this low proctinitis can be a mirror or something that is the brain that could affect the sex of function as well. So We have no doubt that human sexual health can be advanced to several endorphins disease, but also some cardiovascular response. 


And we are actually turning back, coming back to this feature, actually, thinking about sexual activity and reproduction, we have to admit that this sexual activity is a reproductive strategy, actually it's very costly. 


It's not so easy to do sexual activity in terms of energy expenditure, so you have to expand some energy, and it seems to be not a high energy expenditure, but somebody cannot afford such a lot of small energy expenditure. 


So whenever you have a frail condition, maybe you could have also some sexual problem. And this has been very much documented in some nice studies, but also considered as sexual activity, in relation to pregnancy, and this means that also pregnancy has to afford some energy expenditure. 


So in a female body, this connection with all this potential energy expenditure has made some difference in terms of sexual activity. And we also were successful whenever we saw that the American Health Association of Cardiology, for example, in this jungle meeting, in this clinical practice guideline, consider sexual activity that represents a quality of life problem, but also a problem with the ability of this body to make this sexual activity. 


So to pay attention whenever you have a free subject, to consider that we are promoting this sexual activity inside of a cannot afford as well as this activity. So maybe this relationship with energy expenditure, with cardiovascular system needs to be better, emphasized, understood in the future. 


And this is actually a general medicine issue, because in 2008, Howard, completely dedicated to male sexual health and sexual dysfunction, demonstrated that after general anti-disfunction by assessing, by measuring corridor, by corridor through the sound effects and start-up velocity, was able to predict the silent curve of the heart disease in 2008. 


And we are still facing the concept that there was traffic around the concept where the FSD can be a mirror of the vascular health in women. Actually, this was due to the fact that exactly the same year, 2008, this human's health initiative group published a very long follow-up of eight, twelve years in nineteen... 


thousand women participating in this observational study, and they demonstrate that assessing sex or satisfaction at the baseline was not able to predict any major cardiovascular event. Actually they decided to use sex or satisfaction as an outcome, and instead our colleague decided to use the color of the ultrasound of the benign artery in order to see what happens in the vascular artistic. 


So assessing cardiovascular risk management, sex or satisfaction, satisfaction cannot be the answer to our question. Maybe we lost a lot of years of research in this field, even considering that the main field have recognized this type association between erectile dysfunction and coronary artery disease by using the artery size and body disease. 


So this is based on the fact that the benign artery is more than the coronary artery. Maybe this is the reason why it appears before the hernia appears than clinical dysfunction in respect to the coronary artery disease. 


And this is so concerning to me and disappointing to me by considering that the ulcer artery or the pituitary is even smaller than the benign artery. So this makes sense. So we have a smaller vascular history, maybe more informative than the benign one, and we decided not to look at this tissue for so long a time. 


Actually we were scared by studying clitoris, maybe yes, but the clitoris is very similar to benign one, so we're not just scared by this tissue, it's very easy to study, and they have the same molecular mechanism and regulating, as I told you before, their relaxation. 


I'm going to try the pituitary there, so there are no unfamiliar differences, no coronary artery. differences because I show you that also these organs are dramatically post-hospital dependent as the denied one, but with this general difference in terms of knowing and understanding the relationship between sex or dysfunction and cardiovascular disease is mainly due by our court to decide to use different instruments to study exactly the same relationship. 


So we have to change our mind and did we start this very important field of research in person flooring first with the 71 women mortally assessed by using the colour W% of the clitoris and to measure the possibility index which is the reflection of vascular resistance and then we found that this parameter increases the function of BMI, it is the function of all the cardiovascular risk factors so did the higher, 


the cardiovascular dispatch, the higher the value of positivity index. And then we also see the difference in obese versus non-obese subject, again, increased cardiovascular PI, and again, by testifying for having, or not having metabolic syndrome is a very important conditioning to cardiovascular risk. 


Again, we found that the cardiovascular is higher than we represent the metabolic syndrome. And we are also able to demonstrate that the increase of metabolic syndrome components, so the higher the severity of metabolic syndrome in these women, the higher the value of cardiovascular PI in the women as well. 


So, actually, we enlarged this sample size from 71 to 230 women who started from MSD and we published exactly the same results. Now we move to a large sample, we reached 390 and we've exactly found that exactly the same results of the target positivity index increases the function of several cardiometabolic components of cardiovascular risk factor. 


But the most important thing is that we find an association in this parameter with what we use in Italy and in Europe sometimes to monitor and assess cardiovascular risk factor score at 10 years to the prediction of having cardiovascular risk factor in 10 years, at this so-called Projecto 4 score, and we found a very nice association between keto PI value and this score. 


But we saw the score, the main association was observed in pre-menopausal women and not in menopausal menopausal one. What does it mean? It means that we have at our hand some very important parameter to assess cardiovascular risk young women, whenever you cannot think about cardiovascular risk, so it's easy to think about cardiovascular risk enforcement of women, but here we are moving forward just trying to find some predictive value and some predictive parameters for assessing cardiovascular risk in young women that can so be cancer-assisted and then want to try to correct any cardiovascular risk factor to promote an entity, 


also aging. So actually just to demonstrate how we are convinced that we are in the right direction, we also performed this longitudinal retrospective study by using 100 women that at first visit were assessed by using color talk to some of the creatures and the main object to be here was to investigate. 


major cardiovascular events during the follow-up. So we follow-up with these women, and then we call them just to know every maze, so major cardiovascular events that were developed during the follow-up. 


And we found six maze, one by one in five strokes, and this was, we were not able to find any association between this risk factor and the cluster, and the conventional cardiovascular risk factor. So any cardiovascular risk factor that are conventional in our mind, so cholesterol level, schizophrenia, cystolic blood pressure, finisherine, risk recovery, we were able to predict the onset of maze in this region. 


They are very young. But we were able to find a nice association with BMI, so BMI couldn't predict the onset of maze, but the main association was observed for the total PI, and we were able also to find a cutoff value just to disseminate between women who was probably developed the cardiovascular event or who does not develop this alteration. 


So it's an ongoing study and published results, but we are very convinced in the good road to find some very, very important scientific evidence. And indeed, whenever we use another operation of women to find exactly the same evidence, so it uses some women that doesn't come to our office to account for the mains and so on dysfunction, but goes to the cardiologic unit just to be assessed for the cardiovascular risk, 


and we group them in two main group, one with no moderate risk in the mind of the cardiologists, and one with the high or very high risk of cardiovascular risk in the mind of the cardiologists. And we assess for tutorial PI, and we found that group two will have a very high risk also showing a significant increase of possibility index. 


So this means that also looking at different populations find exactly the same results. And in the scientific field, whenever you find exactly the same results by using different tools, makes us more confident that you're going in the right direction. 


So the take-home message here for the cardiovascular risk is that maybe we have balanced this gap. I think about clinical PI as a good tool to reveal cardiovascular risk factor in women consult for FSD that also increase as a function of 10 years cardiovascular risk factor score. 


But also mainly cut off of PI, clinical PI of 1.48 can be anymore. but we have to commemorate with support this evidence, the five years follow up. And this topic is actually higher even with very high cardiovascular inspectors compared to my risk group. 


So actually we can finally state that we have made more science in this field because I am not convinced that we know everything about this relationship. But we are in this position just to promote also more and more scientific research in this field to provide to our patients more answers to their questions and also to improve the way we manage them. 


So actually the endocrine disease, all the list of endocrine diseases that present to you has been linked to non-biotic reproduction and alterations of the sexual problems. And also the cardiovascular risk factor can be a very important evidence. 


And we have to say that these monetologists are assessing for the cardiovascular risk factor by using our way to answer to the very final question that represent you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. 


Thank you. Thank you very much. So I am so happy and proud now to leave the floor to our grand old family that will share with us all the evidence related to people. So stay here and join in the next session. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
