

It's truly amazing, but you know, seeing all of you, so many people here, I just have to figure it out. It's crazy how many people are here. It's an honor to be here. I don't know. This is our 25th year as an English thing, but I don't know if anyone remembers Boston in 1998, where we actually started the first course on Respect. 


It's an FSD manual. Anyone? You're up. You're up. Yes. Two were to breathe. What? Still breathing. So, can you just say these two words from an off label? Off label. Say, expert opinion. Expert opinion. 


Consult the package insert. Consult the package insert. I'm going to give you a slug of medicines, and you're going to want to use them, but they're off label, expert opinion, and consult the package insert. 


Take a slug of photos today. You're going to enjoy this talk. Alright, we're going to do the introduction. So, Anne-Marie brought up the fact that we did a 2016, the Swish forecast definition, and you can see it here. 


We have two of them from that meeting. Physiologic is the variable transient peak sensation of intense pleasure, creating an altered state of consciousness. I love that one. Usually with an initiation accompanied by involuntary rhythmic contractions and comets, right, a circumfaginal musculature, often with an incontamuter and an anal contraction to myotonia, that results in sexually distancing congestive myotonia, 


generally conduction and well-being and contentment. It doesn't really help the clinician all that much. This is the clinical one that came out of 2016, and Anne-Marie again showed this. So this is clinical and the other is physiologic. 


So this is sort of an adaptation from Barry, where if you can see a minute point to the concept that this is the cline and that's the pre-orgasm phase and the orgasm phase and the post-orgasm phase, it kind of makes sense to think of things in a phasic sort of sequence to then make the definition that we're proposing, it's not consensual for the year 2025, that orgasm is a feeling of intense pleasure than he calls over three phases. 


The pre-orgasm phase is generated by repetitive genital and ron genital stimulation, increasing physiological arousal, old body myotonia, resulting in awareness, the proprioception of a progressive increased cline and excitation, you've got to achieve that to get to work. 


The next phase, the orgasm phase, that reaches one or more peaks for people in multiple organisms, an excitation, that triggers an inhibitory process, and very shortly with the inhibition, that results in relaxation of the myotronin, cessation of the stimulation, and deactivation resolution of the excitation. 


That's the pleasure. Everybody do like that in a young one. You go like this, you go like this, you go like that, and it stops. The pleasure is when you stop having built up the myotrons, and there will be a non-general orgasm in those little ideals, ending with satiety content. 


And the third phase is the post orgasm phase. So the whole point, and then you can have the common ejaculation stuff squirting. We have a whole section on all of that in this paper, but not for today. 


The new definition needs to be more clinically relevant than the two ones we had in 2016. So basing on the phases is where we're going to get more clinical. So we have six examples that Barry brought up. 


Two pre-orgasm phase FODs, failure to excite, failure to inhibit. A pre-orgasm and orgasm phase, two of them, delayed orgasm, and then this blimmy thing that Barry talked about, whatever he said was kind of cute. 


And then the orgasm phase FOD is the orgasmic anti-donate, and then the post orgasm phase. So those are our six, but it's based on the phases, and that gives you, as a practitioner, a strategy. Listen to the story. 


I'm trying to climb the mountain. I can't get here. I'm trying to climb the mountain. It hurts too much. I'm trying to climb the mountain. I get orgasm. I don't feel anything. I'm trying to climb the mountain, and then three seconds, and we're having 25 men of all orgasm. 


I'm trying to climb the mountain. It takes me three hours. I don't even get it. The indoor orgasm of the plan. So if you just listen to the story, they'll tell you the phase. So the things on the right are always the normal. 


You can see the one on the left is normal. It's the pathology of the pre-organism phase. And you just can't get to the finish line. You can't climb the mountain. You can't generate the physiological arousal, the excitation that you need. 


And it's right there. The next one is you can't climb the mountain, but the blue, the cold water, there's too much hot water. So it hurts. And the aversiveness makes you stop. The next one is the would-be thing, where you sort of get orgasm at a very low threshold. 


You resolve partially. You get another one. You resolve partially. You just sort of sit on the table and stop all this. And then the next one is the organic angle. You climb beautifully. You get to the phase where the myochonia needs to resolve, but you say, that's like drinking a Coca-Cola. 


I didn't experience the pleasure. You get to the top, and you have a great orgasm, but you can't resolve the post-orgasm phase. You get stuck in this sort of society, and you get all of these energy issues, and motivation issues, and voice issues. 


That's very frustrating. So, you know, one day we'll have 25, echo the examples. We have six now, and it's pretty cool. Okay, so now is the reason why you're here. So take a picture of this, because you're all going to do that. 


You can download this up if you don't want to take a picture, as you said. Or you can ask me, and I'll send it to you. But there are eight categories. The categories are on this side here. There's eight categories. 


We can go through them, one at a time. So the purpose for this group of pharmacologic strategies is for these three groups of FODs, two in pre-orgasm phase and one in pre-orgasm or FOD. So the two pre-orgasm phases are failure to excite, failure to inhibit, and the other one is the blooming. 


All right, so adrenergic agonists and stimulants, so we're looking here, we're going right down the list, and there's a bunch of drugs that are going to pop up here. Remember, all of this is extra-epitian off-label and can solve the package insert. 


There's no question that a major drug that we use in our facility and others is amphetamine, texturofetamine, big salts, called Adero. And it really gets you to focus, it gets you to get arousal. If you can't climb the mountain, you can help climbing, and adrenaline is a way to do that, or at least amphetamine is a way to do that. 


There's a lot of data supportive, a lot of off-label expert opinion to data. So then there is CNS influence in the illicit use of amphetamine, so that, same thing as amphetamine gets from amphetamine salts, is Adderall, it enhances orgasm and the slime at the bottom, the arrow on this thing, shows you that it has a good opportunity to enhance orgasm. 


Yes, we're good. And then there's a paper on Adderall on delayed ejaculation, and it has a chance to improve orgasm. It makes so much sense, your focus, your energy, your heart is beating faster, it's just all part of what you experience. 


Okay, I'm going to leave this column, I'm going to go to this column so you can see what you're interested in. The next thing is dopamine, and dopamine is widely accepted as one of the neurotransmitters and it's easily, phenomenologically adjusted. 


There's a disease called Parkinson's disease. It's a way to get dopamine into your system. Just borrow all the Parkinson's drugs. They are all associated with that organ. So this is a paper on the fact that dopamine can improve orgasm. 


This is another paper, again, on orgasm. And this is a paper that's gonna be presented here as the reconnect trial. For those who are familiar, there's an FDA-approved trial called by Leasy, which is subcutaneous pre-melanotide. 


It's indicated for HSPD, generalized acquired and pre-menopausal women. But if you analyze their female sexual function index above and beyond the domain for desire, you'll see that the domain for orgasm and arousal is significantly higher. 


And I wanna point out in one month, the first four weeks, if you wanna look at that slide more carefully, you see enhancements in orgasm and arousal. And popping a subcutaneous pre-melanotide before sex is something that is reminding you to be quite successful. 


In the more chronic context is convergaling, or any of the Parkinson's drugs, convergaling has been shown and widely used to enhance orgasm in this publication. This is another publication where convergaling has been shown to benefit in the context of also taking testosterone. 


So our Linda Picnossi's amazing lecture on testosterone, combining testosterone with convergaling can be a dopamine testosterone bonus. And again, that paper shows how the combination can be very successful for orgasm. 


And again, any of the other Parkinson's drugs, this is rupineral, this is crown and pepsol, there's a bunch of these that... We can all look at the data and show benefit with word of it. So there's modafinil, which is for narcolepsy, but is also a dopamine agent, can also be used to enhance word of it. 


OK, so when you're looking at this column and you have a woman who's trying to climb a mountain and just can't get there, it could be psychological, it could be neurologic, it could be hormonal. But if you're going to play with drugs, you could do the CNS syndrome thing and the dopamine thing for sure to help this one. 


OK, and the next item is this amazing drug, bupropion, which is dopamine norepinephrine agent, so it's a combo thing. It might be used as generic, it's easy to prescribe. And it has benefits for orgasm, as you can see on the slide. 


And then this is more about bupropion, and another study showing how it can be used to enhance word of it. And this is, again, on bupropion, showing the final column shows the benefit in borogat to have a p-value of 0.0. 


And then we moved out of the column from CNS to dopamine to bupropion. Now we're viewing the oxytocin. So for those people who have delayed labor, getting an infusion of oxytocin can be extremely helpful when you get past 40 weeks. 


But taking oxytocin as a lawsuit, when I first started doing this, we had oxytocin lodges that were 75 units. We now have 500-unit oxytocin lodges. That's what we use. And we use two or three if people want two at a time. 


And it's a truly amazing product from orgasm that's really very simple to use. So you just pop it under your tongue prior to sexual activity. And we began levels of oxytocin related to male sexual arousal. 


Lots of papers on that. And then we go to blocking serotonin. So if serotonin is a near-giver, then all these things are pro-sexual. But buspirone, or flavaxra, or serotonin antagonist, would be widely considered to be logical and rational in trying to get excitation. 


This is the woman who can't climb to the peak and cross to the other side. So buspirone can be very helpful. And data for that. And this is a paper on phlebasrin and first-time orgasm, a case report. 


And then this is phlebasrin. And it's FSFI, just the same as the violysis FSFI. You can see that orgasm is highly improved by taking... So the difference being by these would be that's at the time of sex, where the seduction would be more like the Parkinson's drug or drug. 


And keeping going, to honor our president, oh by the way, that was pre-menopausal. The second slide was post-menopausal. So, uh, dementia has data on post-menopausal work as an individual. And testosterone for treating females is such a special dysfunction. 


This is Jim Simon, hopefully he's here, but thank you Jim for this paper, because it shows that not only can we give testosterone for HSDD, but testosterone also shows that it improves work ethic. It's one of the things that we are talking about today from the committee. 


And then this is from Susan Davis, and again, in a meta-analysis of testosterone data, testosterone improves work ethic. And this is, uh, this is... The seventh of the categories you can do to enhance orgasm in some women who have a pre-orgasm phase disorder. 


This would be PD-5 inhibitors, lots of data on PD-5 inhibitors, helping with orgasm, and this is a Nernberg's paper in JAMA showing that PD-5s improves orgasm, and these are arousal gels. The final column, there's wide numbers of these on the internet. 


There's two that are being developed, a 3.6, I think, percent, a seldemafil cream, to be placed on the thing which has gone through the FDA first sessions and has shown to have some efficacy. Then there's a liposomal cannabidiol, of course my time is out. 


I haven't even started the start. Liposomal cannabidiol, which will then be topically applied, but in a liposomal way, they continue to supply the cannabidiol, and if you have time to read the data, you can show that this data is robust, at least combinarily. 


Okay, so now we're in the next woman who has a failure in a pre-orgasm phase disorder, but to stop the pain. In other words, she has a lot of excitation, but not enough inhibition, and instead of the water being tapped, the water is hot and hurts her. 


So we've developed strategies for SSRIs that will increase inhibition, and then I'll use it. So we have women who take pain medicines just before having sex to stop the first behavior, and that's the classic model that Barry was talking about. 


From one SSRI that's short-acting, which is used for premature ejaculation, that's not available in the U.S. except on internet of Canadian pharmacies. Now, this is for pre-orgasm phase disorder. a pre-orgasm, orgasm phase where you would use those agents to stop pain. 


Now the other thing is for people who have the type of orgasm disorder with an anhedonia and anhedonia let's argue is because as the brain is getting the information it's being turned off, being turned off theoretically by an opioid or a GABA agent. 


So you have blocked the opioid with naltrexone or you can block it with a GABA blocker. This is Barry's paper on how naltrexone did that and we always use the excitation drugs for people who don't have pleasure because it helps them get pleasure. 


So this list we've already talked about but it's widely used for that population. Now this is the population of people with poise, P.Y.S. They look bizarre, protracted, elevated serotonin state, low dopamine, low oxytocin, and low adrenaline state. 


That's factual. They cannot get out of that refractory, low state. So what we do, we give them back agents. So we give them an Adderall to raise their adrenaline. We give them dopamine, because they have a low dopamine state. 


We get out of their dopamine. We use oxytocin, lozages, and that gets them out of their voice, because they have low oxytocin. And that type of thing, and those are the type of agents that we've not successfully requested. 


Lots of work is coming to do on that. So, in conclusion, we have a new definition. It isn't entirely physiologic, it's entirely clinical. It's a sort of a hybrid physiologic clinical one that we believe will be more useful, because you'll be able to identify where in the three things the person has to be, F-O-G. 


And I'm just going to end by saying, these presentations by the three of us, we are looking for feedback, because this thing is not getting the sense. If you hate it, please tell us if you like it, if you want to improve upon it, please tell us. 


The definition has taken a lot of twists and turns. I know that Peter Dionis have actually seen some of these preliminary definitions. And we appreciate them in our future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
