

refers or has a network of public meetings that they have to have to do a refer to in the area. Excellent. Love that. Okay. So I'm just going to go through a brief overview of the anatomy unit. Whenever we're talking about the public floor, there's a group of 14 muscles that sit inside the publics that help facilitate our ability to urinate and have thousands of minutes of time. 


That's good. They have sexual function and reproductive health, and they also create the stability effect between the upper and lower half of our bodies. And in terms of sexual health, you know, we're talking about the bolus congiosys and people with penises. 


I always tell my patients, this muscle wraps around the chest with penises, chronic banana peel. This muscle and people with penises helps to facilitate ejaculation and helps to enhance orgasm. It also helps to meet the intensity for pressure of penises and people with vaginas. 


It helps to help with the literal and the full bar of the inversion. Then we also have the issue of how to use this muscle. And this muscle lines the issue we define, and it's one little beginning job for the lenses, the opposite of the opposite of the opposite of the opposite of the main area. 


A little bit of the inversion that helps you enhance orgasm and people with the vagina can help to fulfill the role of the inversion. And then we've got the synchronicity for the brain, and this muscle kind of attaches to the front and back half of the And then we've had the fecal layer of ulcerative muscle, and these muscles help to increase the gillity effect. 


All of our internal organs sit directly on top of this layer of muscle tissue, and they just create a scamming effect. But they also help with, in talking about sexual function, they help to enhance orgasm through those contractions that Dr. 


Olson was talking about earlier. They help to build up that orgasm and stay with them for their actions. So in particular, you know, conversation about the health support of all of them, sexual response, you know, they're involved in around the lung, and they help to enhance blood flow to the genital tissue. 


those muscular contractions act as a blood pump in and out of the genitals and they help to contribute to erections in clitoral and erythmium and vaginalization. They also help facilitate penetration. 


Patients that have an overactive or a very tight hyperatomic on the floor, these muscles have to be able to relax in order for penetration to be comfortable. And expansion in having flexibility and the ability to expand these tissues helps to reduce pain and penetration and helps to support erectile injury. 


And then for orgasms, we just talked about how all the developing hormones have to be engaged, they have to be contracting, they have to be activated, and they also help to meet pleasure whenever they're activated. 


And then for ejaculation, for people with penises, the public hormones have to contract in order to expel semen out of the penis and also they have to be able to... be engaged for ejaculation control. 


Now this is a very watered down explanation. When we're talking about pelvic floor dysfunctions and pelvic floor dysfunction patients, these are the, I would say, the three main things that we look at for that we see. 


Patients that have hyper-timicity or more appropriate overactivity, pelvic muscle overactivity in the pelvic floor. These patients just have a pelvic floor that just doesn't ever relax. They're kind of stuck in this chronic spasticity. 


And whenever that happens, they can create pain with penetration. They can create erectile dysfunction issues. They can create premature ejaculation issues for delayed ejaculation issues. So that's one of the presentations that we look at. 


Next, moving on to weakness. You know, when pelvic floor muscles, this is kind of a confusing one, but when, two different presentations of weakness that we can see. There's somebody that clinically has a weak pelvic floor, meaning that it's hyper-atomic or underactive. 


They do need some scripting. Pelvic floor muscles have lost their contract eligibility. And so we usually develop strength with them. Then on the other side of the coin, we have patients that have that overactive pelvic floor muscle state. 


The muscles just are chronically tense and tight. They just don't ever relax. They've also lost their contractile flexibility. And that can create weakness. You know, the muscles already have as max potential functionality. 


You can say that it's a weak muscle. You can't do any more work than it's already doing. So when we're talking about weakness, you have to do these exams to really decide, is somebody actually weak? Or do they just need to learn how to lengthen and elongate the tissues to build up their strength? 


And so, the patients have weakness issues that can present as delayed orgasm or amargasmina, or a very contribute to erectile dysfunction. And, you know, kind of going into the same line of coordination issues that patients have lost their ability to relax the pelvic floor. 


They're just kind of stuck in this direct state. And I think a lot of what we do as public is help facilitate the re-learning of how to lengthen and relax. possible, and it's an easy issue, and once we get them to lengthen, and we get more range of motion, and we help destroy them in the issue. 


And so, when we're talking about the impact of dysfunction on intimacy and partner dynamics, we have to talk about physical barriers. I mean, when I'm talking about physical barriers, I'm talking about pain, pain with penetration, erectile dysfunction, premature ejaculation, physical aspects of what's happening when they're trying to engage with sex with their partner. 


But we also have to talk about the emotional strain. You know, if one of my male patients comes in and he's experiencing ED's 45, all his hormones have checked out, his blood works clear, he has erectile dysfunction clinically, and he's seen his virologist, they can't really find anything wrong with him, they come into public PT, they're in this, like, anxious spiral, this presentation where they don't want what's wrong with them, 


they're too young to be able to experience an ED, They're having relationship issues with their wife because his wife thinks that she's not attracted to, he's not attracted to her anymore, so it creates this negative feedback loop. 


And so when patients get in this anxious firewall, it creates all of this, you know, the dysfunction that they're coming into my clinic with. They already have a baseline level of, whoops, baseline level of anxiety, and that worsen, the dysfunction that they're having. 


Going back to this overactive public-force state, there's this one research study, they had, basically an auditorium like this, they had people sitting in a movie theater, and they had them looking at this really horror, scary movie, and they looked, they had sensors on people's pelvic force, and they looked at external sensors, and they looked at what people, what happened to their pelvic floor when they experienced trauma, 


or they saw something visually traumatic, and I've heard it in the percentage, but the majority of patients are people in the auditorium, everybody contracted their pelvic floor, and so we experience trauma, and we experience anxiety, our natural state is just a clench, and when people get stuck in this clench state, and they don't ever learn to relax, and we make the experience, always just the pelvic health dysfunctions, 


the anxiety just kind of perpetuates itself. Anxiety creates more dysfunction, dysfunctions create more anxiety, so this negative effect is what we need, and, you know, if you're a neuro, a neurologist, a physician team, sex therapist, this is what we have to figure out, how to break that effect. 


You know, with this negative effect, it also creates this partner, just to make an example of a husband and a wife, and a wife, even though he's not a doctor, like some sort of issue that's blocked that's up there, so it creates this kind of mistrust, this communication barriers between partners, and so as physical therapists, a big part of what we do also, obviously we treat the patient that's in, 


I treat the patient that's in my clinic, it's in my living room, but I also have to include this partner whenever we're talking about sexual health assumptions, especially to add to sexual health, that there's three people in this situation. 


And so restoring connection, fostering communication between partners, understanding what's driving the patients that don't, so the partner can, you know, take the pressure off if it's not. It isn't a me problem. 


That's all part of what we do as public entities. And so we're moving into the common public health issues that I can see in terms of my public health colleagues here in the clinic, Tennessee and the clinic. 


And to be what Venus is, I would say the biggest condition that I see is prostatitis, or chronic lung cancer, that chronic non-bacterial prostatitis. 95% of prostatitis diagnoses are this CPPS presentation. 


It's more of a pelvic floor dysfunction issue. And so it presents with a lot of pain, direct heart dysfunction, urinary, urgency, frequency, pain and curation, painful ejaculation, painful erections, a lot of sexual health issues. 


I also see a lot of the running disease, or heart flaccid, I see a lot of erectile dysfunction. specifically in the underpopulation. You see a lot of premature ejaculation and some post prostatectomy issues, which, as we know, can present with erectile assumptions, hearing and incontinence. 


But in patients with vaginitis, you can see this printing of human penetration, vaginismus, which is general vaginal, vulvar pain, and bulginia. It's the most paramount and the most impossible treatment as well. 


In fact, the issue is integrity, flexibility, strength at all can contribute to sexual assault. And so what exactly do we do is help the PTs. Whenever a new patient comes into my clinic, depending on what they're coming to see me for, obviously there's going to be a history-taking subjective. 


In my evaluation list, I said 90 minutes, and probably half of that is just talking to the patient, talking about what their shoes are, what their symptoms are, what they've been experiencing. And so within my evaluation, obviously, like I said, there's history-taking, but then I usually go through a more competing assessment, right? 


Their hip strength, their range of motion, their flexibility of their tissues. I do a palpation assessment. I always tell patients, healthy tissues shouldn't hurt. Nothing that I judge you to do should be painful. 


And so if I'm doing a muscle palpation assessment, I'm checking to see if any of those muscles that attach into the pelvis are in the abdomen or in the glutes, and you can present with these sort of pain. 


And then a lot of times, I'll do an intramural assessment. And depending on the patient that's in my clinic, whether they have a vagina or a penis, an intramural assessment can give us a lot of really valuable information about what the pelvic floor can be in the immediate time. 


Instead of going back to that diagram of those 14 pelvic floor muscles, the deepest layers can be accessed through the rectum or through the rectum. And whenever I'm assessing those, I'm assessing their coordination, their ability to relax the pelvic floor, and checking their range of motion and their flexibility of the tissues. 


I'm checking their pain, again, in the stomach guys, even with the finger of your butt, nothing that I touch in there should be painful. pressure and there might be a little bit of a center, but nothing in there should be handled. 


And so it is, I don't know that, because it might be tissue that I need to treat. And, you know, with manual therapy, there's a lot that I do with my hands, and I work with manual therapy and kind of help facilitate relaxation and help facilitate strengthening within tissues. 


But, you know, we'll go into those here in a little bit, but neuromuscular education, connecting, reconnecting the mind with the body, helping patients, one, figure out what their pelvic floors are, you know, help them connect with what their pelvic floor is and what it's doing in any given moment, and then helping them to learn or relearn what it should be doing during any given time, you know. 


The amount of pelvic floor contraction we need for a squat or a deadlift is not the same level of contraction that we need rolling over dead or sitting under or standing under a chair. So helping them to relearn how to reorient their pelvic floors, bringing in activity, the large part of what I do. 


And then, obviously, as a physical therapist, I'm a self patient's movement medicine. So, therapeutic exercise is a big piece of what I do, helping people regain flexibility, help regain mobility through exercise and be really helpful. 


And then, biofeedback, I know a lot of physicians refer to public ETS specifically for biofeedback. So, biofeedback just means living with feedback. And so, I, personally, in my community, don't use the biofeedback device. 


I use my figure. And that gives me more information than the device does because a lot of times, you can get false negatives or false negatives. And so, I don't really rely on biofeedback. I hope part of this conversation with me, and you can ask to present some public physical therapists, biofeedback, there's more public ETS in what we do than just biofeedback. 


In terms of pain reduction strategies, so, a lot of what I treat, regardless of the patients in front of me, is penis-adrenal. A lot of what I treat is pain. And so, teaching patients how to reduce pain and help facilitate the reduction of pain is a big part of what I do. 


So, again, hands-on specifics of, you know, myofascial connective tissue release techniques, cupping, skin rolling, all my public ETS, how we know what all of these are, but breaking up tissue and getting more flexibility and being able to release some tissue to help facilitate relaxation and help facilitate flexibility is a big part of what I do as being a therapist. 


And again, neuromuscular gouging. So, connecting the mind and the body, getting patients to connect with where the public or where they are, and teaching them how to actively let go. When I teach you patients to do a public core relaxation, I would say it's a lot more than just a contract relax. 


So, there's a third phase to it. There's a contract relax release, contract relax bulge, or a lengthen. There's this third phase, this eccentric lengthening phase that has to happen in order for their pain pre-penetration, in order to be a rebound effect for people not so deep whenever they jump, or to work out. 


So, a lot of what I do is helping them. connect their diaphragm, their breath, and their brain and their pelvic floor so that they can all work and use them. And then modalities, fancy tools that I use in the clinic. 


In Georgia, at least, we've been trying to eat like, or any like, just brief overview, similar to acting, I'm sure, but kind of similar, you'll be able to see needles, completely different theories behind it. 


But it helps to kind of taking it, then the old sticking it into the muscle to try to get it to relax and get it to release. I use a lot of that in my clinic. And then shockwave therapy is another big modality that I use in my clinic. 


Specifically with erectile dysfunction and some pain diagnoses, but shockwave therapy is a big modality diaphragm in my clinic. And then, obviously, I didn't mention my feedback, but you all might feel a lot better. 


And then, again, as a physical therapist, mobility and strengthening exercises are a big part of what we do. I'm going to help you get to where you want to go, but the things that are going to keep you there are at the movement base. 


stuff that I'm going to give you for your home program that you're going to do outside of here so it will keep you where you're at whenever I give you there. And so when we're talking about enhancing sexual function in the public for a role in that, there might be some core and public for strengthening. 


And if we're talking about an underactive versus an underactive public for, the last thing that I want somebody to do is go and do a million people. So if they're presenting this underactive public for a man treating with nutrition, that's just going to exacerbate the issues. 


Whether it's a vagina or it's a filletal vagina or anal penetration, it should not hurt. And so if it does, the last thing you might give people is this, what are we going to do with a million people? 


If you wouldn't go to the gym and do bicep curls every single day under bicep curls, why don't we just train over to the public for that way? And so there might be some core strength things. There might be some core strength things. 


But a lot of what I do and give people as your home program is public for down training and public for mobility work and flexibility work. And whenever we get more mobility in this issue, whenever we get the public for most of the people to actively relax and contract appropriately, it's going to help enhance blood flow. 


And it's going to help when they have more max potential of their muscle contraction. It's going to help enhance orgasms. And it's also going to help enhance sensation, as Dr. Wilson mentioned earlier. 


And again, in talking about normal sort of coordination, if we can get the public for most of to contract when they should, a.k.a. whenever we're trying their patients to enhance their orgasm experience, if we can get more strength into the tissue as well as flexibility, it's just going to enhance their overall muscle and orgasm experience. 


And then again, I have to reemphasize breath work and relaxation. One of my good friends and dear colleagues, who would be, she kind of paved the way with pelvic floor relaxation and what happens with the diaphragm in the pelvic floor. 


Whenever we reem, what should happen when you take a big breath in, the pelvic floor should do this eccentric line thing and drop down and expand. to allow for all of this introduction and all of the work is to kind of drop down as diagonally drop it, and then we move to exhale, the lungs deflate, the diagonally write, the writing and the abdomen shifts upwards, and the pelvic floor should do a general kind of reflexive recoil contraction, 


so there's just a piston mechanism that should be happening. And so a lot of people talk about diaphragmatic breathing, and yes, it helps to enhance the pressing of that response, and it helps, it does help with pelvic floor relaxation, but that's why the diagonally pelvic floor work together, and so if people are experiencing sexual dysfunction, if they are experiencing pain, yes, I want to teach them how to relax their pelvic floor, 


how to tap in to that eccentric functioning, but I also want to make sure they're breathing. People that experience pain, or even people with future ejaculation, experience this breath-holding pattern. 


You know, kind of if you think about the crescendo of the leg of the forecasting of this, and then people hold their breath, or it will be very shallow, rapid breath work, and so if people are experiencing pain... 


Tapping with a diaphragm, taking a big inhalation, thinking about relaxing the club forward can really go a long way. And then obviously, there has to be communication department involvement. And I try to include partners as much as my nation wants them included in their treatment sessions. 


If we can get the couples to communicate and actually open up about what feels good and what doesn't and what feels painful and what doesn't, they can build trust and can create this relationship that is stronger. 


And so I'll have patients bring their partners into therapy and if patients have painful penetration or if they have painful erections or painful ejaculation. I'll show the partner what I'm doing in the clinic and how they can do that at home, whether it's hands-on technique or whether it's a public wine or whether it's a vibration device to help kind of calm the tissue down. 


I try to incorporate partners as much as I can in my practice when I'm with a patient who has any sort of sexual health issues. The department won't be included and it's also helpful to pro-partner to realize that it's not a mean problem. 


There is something structurally going on and it takes a lot of the shame off of the partner and a lot of the anxiety off of the partner and they can then co-work together on the issues that the patients are having. 


And so I was drove with my patients. I have my doctorate degree in physical therapy. Most days, though, I'm a lowercase E in a capital T. I spend a lot of time talking to patients. I spend an hour with every single patient and we get to know each other really well. 


And so I was drove though, you know, I went to school for the physical stuff, the body stuff, I didn't go to school for the head stuff. And I have a lot of really great and sex therapy colleagues here in Atlanta, at least that I refer to, that I love to co-treat with because it helps, you know, I can spend my time doing what I can do that and sometimes patients just want somebody to talk to you. 


They share a lot of really sensitive personal information would be that a lot of times they never share with anybody before. And so sometimes they just... it's a little bit of a talk to, but if I think, you know, there is some performance anxiety, there is a past history of trauma, I really want another colleague that is trained in that specific domain to help facilitate all of our journeys together while we're working on training this patient. 


And so I wanna talk about a few case studies. In the first study, I'm being funny and cute and short, so I'm gonna go really quick. So the first case study is a husband and wife. I was first started treating a husband, he was getting steroid injections for paper, and he says he's getting, he's hospitalized, flax gets about 30 degree of curvature in his knees. 


He was coming to me, and you're in shock when you get his connective tissue work, we've got the curvature of his penis to decrease a little bit, but he also told me that his wife told him that he had, she had pain with penetration, and so she came in for an evaluation, and we found that her right operator returns, which was lit up, and any time I touched it, she had sent her food. 


And so, We work on the right operator in terms of guessing mobility for the right side of her hip, her pain penetration went away, his female pain went away. Great success story. Another patient I'm currently working with is 45, comes to me with ED. 


He was referred to me from a sex therapist because of his ED complaints. We're doing shock waves, trying to get one blood flow to the tissue. He had a lot of trauma from his ex-wife relationship, so he did not like anybody to touch him because of the situation and the toxicity that he experienced with his ex-wife and created this ED performance for the ED situation. 


And so he was working with her with all of the traumatic experience. He's coming to me for the physical side of things. We use the shock wave. We worked with I and I think Dr. Goldstein also uses the shock wave and uses penis pumps and penis injections to get people erect. 


And so I have penis pumps in the clinic that I'll use to get people an erection before I do shock wave treatment. And a lot of times that in itself can help people visualize that, yes, blood can get to the tissue. 


Yes, I can get an erection. And that sometimes can help with that anxiety. And obviously shock waves can help improve blood flow. But, you know, I saw him for five years as a team. We're coordinated with neurologists, with the Cialis, and after our treatments in the Cialis. 


He's been a great commensurate. He has no interest in partner sex just yet, but at least in the other direction, he is able to masturbate. So any conclusion? Sexual dysfunction, as I hope you've gathered in this shared experience, it requires a team approach. 


When I say team approach, I'm talking about not only the couple, the two people in the couple, the partner team, but also the team approach from my position colleagues, from my sex therapy colleagues, from other public E.T.s. 


So they can provide a multidisciplinary team approach, and it should be the standard of care. As if you and your team, by the way, show of hands, it's all that a lot of people have, you know, networks of public E.T.s in their areas, but if you don't, there are resources out there to help connect you with health care. 


that can help you bring into your care team. I've listed the web types of theater and I hope that they're in presentations, but these three sources I've directed is where you literally just put it into your zip code and it will give you a directory of all the public meeting sources to you. 


And obviously, if that's what I'm saying, the address of the public for health can be improved into the scene overall, which is a satisfaction. I really hope you got that in my investigation. Thank you so much. 


Thank you. 
