

I want to thank Maria for an excellent perspective of the psychological aspects. I'd like to present a complimentary perspective on some neurological aspects and focusing on the role of inhibition and excitation in orgasm. 


A few years ago, with Beverly Whipple, we did this study in which we showed that when women apply vaginal self-stimulation, we measured the pain threshold by each step, provides some pressure on the finger and increases the force gradually until they say it hurts, and that's chow grading, we say that's the pain threshold, pain detection threshold. 


What we noticed was that as women just applied pressure, the pain threshold went up about 50%, and as they continued the stimulation and they did it in a way that felt pleasurable, we got a stronger increase in pain detection threshold, and in orgasm, there was about an over 100% increase in your pain threshold, which means that as the excitation was increasing toward orgasm, so was the inhibition. 


The inhibition was increasing because the pain threshold was going up. It was getting more and more difficult to elicit a painful response. The pressure had to be more than twice as much until they said it hurt. 


So there was an active inhibition going on. I realized this was an important realization for myself. Now, some years later, American Light did this study in which they showed that men and women who had a traumatic injury, to just the end of the day, the anterior ventral part of the spinal cord that would block the spinal cholomic system. 


This is here. The these men and women lost the sensation of pain below the level of the injury, but they also lost the ability to have more gases. At the same time, since the dorsal column system was intact, they could feel the genital stimulation. 


And even using a vibrator that gave very strong stimulation, they could feel the very strong stimulation, but they couldn't have orgasms. So there's something special about the relationship between the pain pathway and the orgasm pathway and it suggests that the common factor is the activation of the reticular formation that produces generalized activation of the brain. 


Another element of the relationship between orgasm and pain, these people are all having orgasms. So in the studies that I've done with Dan Weiss, who's here, on orgasm in women, the brain activity during orgasm in women, we use that, this is representing it by a hot metal analog, which if you heat up a piece of metal, it gets red hot, then brighter, and then yellow hot, orange hot, yellow hot, or white hot is the greatest activation. 


So as cell stimulation started, you see some activation occurring, and at orgasm there's widespread overall activation of the brain. So very strong excitation, and then after the orgasm, it cools down. 


This is another representation of that. Each column is a different brain region, one of the 80 broadened regions, and each row is a two second of an entire brain scan. So this represents the entire brain scan every two seconds, starting with the general cell stimulation going down. 


And you can see that as it proceeds, different parts of the brain become differentially activated, but at orgasm there's widespread activation, excitation in the brain, and then it cools down after orgasm. 


Another representation is looking at specific brain regions. When the women press the button saying that their orgasm just started, there was a significant increase in various brain regions, just another representation of the stronger excitation at orgasm. 


In contrast, in men, what we see with Kishina Allen was that... This is when the men press the button to say that orgasm starts. And the interesting thing here is that you can see the activity is increasing toward orgasm. 


And as a kind of orgasm, there's a sharp increase in activation. And then here is the duration in between these dotted lines, the duration of the orgasm. So when you can, there's the genital self-stimulation is continuing, but the activation of the brain is going way, way down. 


There's active inhibition being generated by the active excitation. And that's most likely what accounts for the post orgasmic refractory theory. Now, the idea of inhibition, in neurological terms, is a different perspective than the overall. 


kind of blanket inhibition that is spoken about in gross terms, in psychological terms, in psychological inhibition, it's a different process. And in this sense, the inhibition is complementary to the excitation. 


And at the simplest level, the reflex level, the knee jerk reflex, you activate the extensor muscle. And simultaneously, hardwired is an inhibitory system that blocks the antagonistic muscle, perfectly adaptive. 


And another example of this is in doing precise movements, like picking up a chess piece and moving it, it's low activation, but the inhibition is there because it prevents the spasticity. It enables the precise and delicate movement. 


And at a higher level of excitation, of taking a walk, the excitation level is high, but also the inhibition because it's preventing the spasticity, it's complementing the excitation, allowing graceful movement. 


And even at the very high intensity of running the race, running upstairs, the excitation is much higher. But so is the inhibition. So the inhibition is going along with the excitation, maintaining smooth, precise movement, graceful movement. 


Now, this is a representation of where in the brain pain is represented. And some of the regions are the insula and the amygdala, the periaqueductal brain. These are the classical pain-responsive regions of the brain. 


And what I've done here is also show the regions of the brain, a peak activation during orgasm. They're in the yellow circles. If I draw the line between the regions of the brain that activate, that are activated by pain, and the regions of brain that are strongly, most strongly activated by orgasm, there's a very close overlap between those regions. 


To represent that schematically, these are the same brain regions, just named in the previous image. So in response to pain, which can inhibit orgasm, there's activation of these brain regions. I didn't mention that in each of those brain regions, there's concentration of inhibitory interneurals, GABA neurons, and also opioid, the endorphin neurons. 


So activation of these regions are in pain. can inhibit the regions that respond to genital stimulation. And conversely, activation by genital stimulation, activating orgasm, activates the pain response of neurons. 


This is a representation of what happens during orgasm, where the excitation and the inhibition are going up concurrently. And actually, and this is in male, I should point out that if the excitation exceeds the ability of the inhibition to control it, that's when the injury is pain. 


It's more intense than the ability of the inhibition to control it. So it seems like orgasm occurs just at that border between the limitation of the inhibition of the excitation. Well, this is the point in males at which ejaculation occurs. 


And maybe also women, the point at which ejaculation occurs. And possibly, the function of this, at least the function, adaptive function in men, is that the inhibition enables the excitation to increase to a high intensity. 


Well, what's the adaptive function of the high intensity? It is the point at which the high threshold sympathetic control of ejaculation is triggered. So it's a mechanism to enable the excitation to increase without becoming aversive, increase to a point where it contributes some high threshold activation, such as ejaculatory mechanism. 


And then, so that sets up a negative function. a feedback system that turns on the stronger inhibition that inhibits the, produces the refractory theory. And perhaps in the case of women, the inhibition is not as strong after the orgasm. 


So it enables the women to proceed with the continued stimulation and even more orgasms. So this is another representation of it I developed with Erwin Goldstein, that rather than the up-down balance of microthermal, which is more of an overall view, or the view of others, the bank growth model, we view the excitation and inhibition in the neurological sense as hot and cold water. 


that would be the medical. They can be varied independently, but jointly. And so in the case of pain, the low intensity flow, but it could be still pain, like touching a hot stove, or a high intensity flow, meaning many more neurons involved, it could be a much more pervasive pain response. 


And so in the case of pleasure or orgasm, it could be low intensity, or the two can increase to the point of more and more excitation, which is perceived as pleasurable as one is not a person. So a simple way of representing that is with these bar graphs, so the excitation is raised in the inhibition blue. 


This is representation all the time of multiple orgasms, in the case of women. The very important thing that we have to recognize is the importance of the myotonia, the muscle tension, because the muscle tension generates proprioceptive input that is pleasurable. 


So as the genital stimulation continues, and this is a climb in the pre-orgasmic phase, the excitation of the brain, produced by the genital stimulation, increases, instead of increasing, or increasing, maybe not steadily, increases, and it generates the increasing myotonia, increasing muscle tension throughout the whole body, not just the pelvic floor. 


And then that generates strong proprioceptive sensation, the mindfulness, the sensation of the internal, input from the body that I already was talking about. That proprioceptive input produces a strong component of the pleasure of the orgasm, especially in non-genital orgasm. 


And then at the peak, it triggers the inhibitory response at the orgasm phase that inhibits the negative feedback system that triggers the inhibition, and then there's a relaxation, and then the post-orgasm phase of returning to baseline. 


I think this is a quick representation of this inhibit when the sensation gets too intense, it triggers a new inhibitory system that relaxes the muscle. The muscle tension becomes too great, it's a goal dependent on everybody. 


But into the brain activity. is an extension of this basic protective reflex. It's a negative feedback. If the intensity gets too high, it turns itself off. So in discussions with Erwin, we calculate about six different, and this is just the beginning, at least six different categories of orgasmic disorder. 


And just quickly, I just want to go through them, because Erwin will do this a much more comprehensively. One case is when the excitation is known, and this is a pre-orgasmic disorder, that it could be due to inadequate stimulation. 


Or it could be due to a neuropathy where there's damage to the sensory nerves, and we've seen this also. Or it could also be an anodal, or it could be a psychological block to prevent getting sufficient excitation to its various organs. 


Second problem is where the inhibition is, the stimulation becomes diverse at an early stage and turns off the excitation. So this could be a lack of sufficient inhibition, enacted inhibition, also during the pre-orgasm phase. 


And Erwin has used a short-acting SSRI to increase inhibition, and that enables the excitation to get to a higher level and restores her ability to have organics. A third type is immunization of pre-orgasm and organophage disorder, whether it could be inadequate inhibition, could be inadequate inhibition, would be muscle weakness, that the individuals have pneurasms, but they're very, very weak. 


They don't get anywhere. They just occur prematurely at a two level level. And it's not very exactly serious. Although it's an orgasm. A poor type is the orgasm thing, in which it's anhedonia. This is a very difficult situation. 


The individuals have the orgasm, but they have no pleasure from the orgasm. The nuts and bolts of the system is working, but they don't have the pleasurable response. And this could be an example of a psychological inhibition blocking the mechanism of the orgasm, which blocks the appreciation of the sensation. 


A bit of a type is the orgasm. the post-orgasm-based disorder, which is, there's a lot of research going on. The orgasm is perfectly normal. They have it, men and women have the strong orgasm, but after that, they feel sick. 


They feel like they have a heavy flu. There's malays, brain fog, low energy, and that can last for hours or days. And it's really an unsolved question so far as whether it's an allergic response, an oral immune response. 


All kinds of medications have partial effects, beneficial or not worthy. And finally, this is the list. Finally, the delayed orgasm, where it just takes, eventually, then we get there, but it takes forever, and sometimes they don't get there. 


And this could be the inactive stimulation. Neuroptically, we've seen that with target cysts or herniated and divergent cysts that covers the end of this end of that kind of surgery for a psychological problem. 


So, I won't go through the conclusions. So, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
