

Rose, I know many of you who are working in dangerous deserts have a hard time finding sex therapists. And so for those of you who do, you may look for people who are sex therapists, who are counselors, who work in many different states, and also people who are sex counselors who are not therapists, that they may be a sex certified sex therapist, sex counselors, work with an educational model, and not a lot of them work across borders, 


but in the US and around the world. So just understanding, if you know the way that some person might be, you should be accessible to others. No, no. Go on with it. Go on. OK. Go get my options. Don't get me. 


No, no, no. This is still happening. I've heard her coming home from the world, and she's actually experienced a wonderful benefit. How do you feel about it? It's a little bit difficult. I don't know. 


Yeah, I remember that. I think that because... I don't know. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't know. I think that's a little bit difficult. I'm so excited about it. I think that's a little bit difficult. 


I don't know. I don't know. I think actually one of the issues... Yeah, she's a boy with a new toy. She's got a small mouth. I don't know. I think the question is not for anyone particular, but this is a multi-disciplinary panel. 


I hear this among our patients. They go to a sex therapist and don't want to admit that they can do a biologic problem. They go to a biologic therapy clinician and don't want to admit that maybe they can get a different sex therapy. 


I am a physical therapist, so I am going to be talk to someone. How do you deal with patient length? So, what is the schedule? The schedule is everything psychological is physical. So when you have a psychological issue so you have thoughts and your thoughts are neurospatial anatomy what are actual chemicals and your pain that comes you see that? 


I really try to impress on my patients that there is nothing that is purely psychological or purely physical. There's a relationship, don't expect that. Yes, this is for Dr. Lee. If there's eye flex injections, if the person already has calcified, and pretty extensively for peronees, are they still appropriate? 


I know there's some conflicting evidence around that. Yes. Sorry. I didn't get into the details about surgical treatment of peronees disease for time sake. But yes, if there's extensive calcification, then it cannot be used on just the injection, because the injection is collagenate. 


So if something is calcified, you know, calcium, you know, it's not going to treat this. It's going to be exactly what I was saying. Thank you. Hi. We are from the South Pacific Northwest. Thanks for a great panel. 


I'm really enjoying it. To me, you may have something that's very interesting. I've put aside whether or not I want it to come up. I do not. But to your point that our emotions, those people are not critical, and they both work together. 


And when you have that anxiety, you've got to be strong. I'd like to ask you, do you have that anxiety? No. The first thing, when you're talking, is there's a problem for us? What's the problem? I don't think there's a problem. 


So can't you believe that anxiety, or coming from us is not going to just fit it up? It's probably going to switch us. You're coming from a logical perspective. Oh, so cool. I'm going to ask you that. 


I'm going to ask you that. I'm going to ask you that. I'm going to ask you that. If they have a long period of time, a lack of urgency and frequency, all clear, then it's bigger. I'm going to ask you that. 


If they have a word last, if they stop irritation around the reasonably, I'll suggest to them, if they use really cool manual techniques in the world of social integration, they can actually treat them like this themselves. 


But we can get into that cloud wall, we can get into those beautiful muscles. We can get into that microphone. I shouldn't touch it. We can get into that, and we can get into the process. And if we can actually release the tension in those organs, the coming form muscles too, will stay on for you very much. 


And I know. So, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question about hypothese. I'm a little confused. I don't understand how pleasure and arousal, ejaculation, or experience, in my mind, the pleasure, arousal, ejaculation comes from the engorged penis, and the engorgement is coming from the prosthetic. 


I don't understand how that's experienced at first. So, the inflation of the prosthesis is not, I think, in and of itself caused pleasure. And actually, pleasure, it shouldn't directly come from engorgement except for psychological. 


I think we're giving the sensation feedback, but the nerves, like the dorsal nerves for sensation are different than the cavernous or the conorection, so you can have the ejaculation on orgasm with a flask of penis. 


So for the patients who have an IPP, it's not, the pleasure is not from the IPP, it's just from the sexual activity itself and the stimulation of the penis. And is the pleasure experienced, is it similar to what we get with the actual orchids or is it? 


Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. 


I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. 


I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do with this. I don't know what to do. If you were giving a presentation, it's so easy. 


It's just a jerk. We just see that. A further elaboration is, and I love it, it shows something different. I don't know what other responses there are. You either leave the relationship, which is not going to go up. 


You withdraw from the attempt. You get too ahead of it. And then, if you don't know, you don't have to facilitate. You have no idea how to facilitate. So really, kind of don't, there's no other choice. 


And when I say that to people, they feel less, the woman feels less angry at him, and the guy feels like he can soften a little bit. We would expect that, kind of like the stages of Koopler-Ross's model of death and dying there. 


You expect to go through these stages. And lastly, when I think about it, I have this idea of cold hostility and calm hostility. It's what if we have some kind of five-player freeze? Freeze is solicitous, and then fight is either attack or punitive as well. 


We need our cognitive skills to overcome those primitive kinds of reflexes. Yes, I have a question, if there are no other questions I have. One thing that I don't think it was the same that they're not as positive. 


But I kind of always thought that, why is it that it's a way to signalize the discrimination in the system, but I mean, I understand what you're saying, you feel it better as a... Can I ask one more question? 


You think that you have techniques and you have expertise, but it's often when you ask... Can I ask one more question? I don't know. I don't think it's a good question. I don't think it's a good question. 


Visualizing it can be a good way to keep the representation. I don't think it's a good question. I don't think it's a good question. I don't think it's a good question. No, biodegrad can be great. And in a lot of places where there aren't public therapists, biodegrad can be really helpful because it does... 


I do. ...patience of visual representation of what they're doing in their lives. What I tend to see is that when there aren't public meetings around and somebody is using biodegrad in an office that they may not have been doing very well in what exactly the person is supposed to be doing or taking out. 


A lot of people that we're relying on by the feedback to give patients a key way that, you know, could be there's so many ways to cue a level of relaxation or a level of contraction, and if you have the skill set to be able to critically assess and analyze that. 


I don't mean to just, like, cue all over it, but I feel like a lot of healthcare providers who are prescribed and who are relied on it, when they might not necessarily need it, and if they do need it, there may be more pieces of the puzzle that might be generalized. 


Thank you. I have a question, too, but we also have this session. We are talking here about popular dynamics, and what we know ourselves. We saw a case, we got sexual harassment in one part of the point side, sexual harassment in the other one, and I'm just wondering... 


What is chicken or egg, and what comes first, and do we need to know? It doesn't matter. Do we need to know who drives the sexual problem in the couple dynamics? Does it do anything between them that is just wondering if you have any ideas on that? 


I mean, I think it's huge though. If that's what you need, it's a person with a couple of couple of whole legs. That's what I was saying, indeed. A sexual function is a cause issue, but also the issue is a cause, a true function. 


And, yeah, there's no... Yeah, but I have a writing thing. Exactly, but I was also wondering, like, if you have a couple of other sexual problems, and that's a little textural about what makes that the other partner, I mean, do you drive the other one down, and the partner will buy functions for two months? 


Like, what is happening? Do you need to know who drives sexual touch, and see if there is a slight difference that can help you solve the problem? I personally think that's where the couple goes back. 


Like, the network goes up. That's like the whole point of therapy. But, okay, what do we need to know about that? Yeah. I mean, I think in the medical field, certainly male sexual dysfunction has been kind of a focus on general medical care. 


And so, I think that, like, as we develop more research and treatment for female sexual dysfunction and change, we're asking these questions for courage. I think, you know, sexual pleasure, sexual health, I think it all kind of goes back and forth a little bit. 


Thank you. 
