

Okay, I'm going to visit our visitors outside of the room. You're welcome, I'm Ken. Hi, hello, my name is Michael Brogan. This is called the Phenomenal Panel. I'll send you all the thoughts you have. 


I would like to point out, within my sexual community I would actually make the neurological and self-categorical, because when you're talking about hanging this in a computer, or it's a transportation, there is order in the computers as well that would not necessarily be neurological and then manifest as psychological, but it could be such a social, or it's consistent with what we can show. 


So I think if you can talk about the capacity at all, intuition and excitation, I think you're right on your head. It's bi-directional, but it's not only a mere subsection, a mere self-character. I think that those two ideas are not mutually exclusive. 


That there could be an open, for example, in the case of a hybrid car, the brakes to the accelerator work openly. You don't use both at the same time, but at the same time that the dance engine is going, it turns off the electric motor, and vice versa. 


So internally, there are excitations in a mission going on, while overall the excitation is very, or the braking is occurring. So there are different processes that we're addressing. So certainly there's overall, like in the case of an antonia, where the circuitry works, but the appreciation of it is lost. 


example of whether the excitation inhibition of the circuitry could be working perfectly okay, but then there's a psychological inhibition to be superimposed on, and that's obviously the appreciation of the activity. 


They're not mutually simple. I agree with you completely. The only thing I would say is perhaps some of the younger people older than us is in the future that they are. Maybe I'm going to point out that there seems to be some of the things that I should do at all, but I don't think the task is likely to work. 


But I agree with you. Thank you all very much. Jim Simon. Great presentations. Thank you. I have a question for Ann Maria. It may be a little obtuse, but I think it could be a little specific. You pointed out that one of the psychosocial problems with orgasm was attention to internal versus external cues. 


Certainly agree with that. Surrender the relationship in an individual between her locus of control, internal versus external, and her ability to pay attention to those cues. I would say I actually don't know. 


I think there might be other people in the audience who feel better than I do, because I don't know if there's anyone here that have no knowledge about that. Could be interesting to know. Because my question is not to do, but also if you haven't touched very much on, for example, the case shootings, and the ways, you know, all the technical cases we have where women are going to the minimums have, 


you know, a lot of problems with getting an old person. So I think that's, but I don't know about your specific question, but I think there might be somebody else in that. Thank you. Hello. To your friends, we have a speaker next to us. 


Again, wonderful panel. Thank you all so much. I have a point of clarification for you, Barry, about something that you mentioned that has got my brain going and going. You mentioned that the heightened inhibition that you can see in somebody, post-orgasm could potentially contribute to the refractory period, and that the greater the inhibition in post-orgasm, the longer the refractory period. 


I wanted to clarify a feeling that that would correspond to the whole brain inhibition, or is this something very specific to inhibition of pain, and the pain-related barrier list, because the idea that there's a whole brain inhibition for the whole of the refractory period, it just makes me think about. 


I'm like, if a man has an orgasm, does that mean his brain is shut down for several hours? Yes, yes. And we know that the refractory period gets longer as you age, so are we talking about days? No. That's a little one, though. 


What's it really specific to that pain pathway? Say it again. Or is it really specific to that pain pathway that you're arguing there? Well, the orgasm consists of many different processes going on at the same time, and different parts of the brain control different components of the orgasm. 


There's the activation of the sympathetic system, or the posterior hypothalamus. There's activation of oxytocin secretion, or the parabidual nucleus of the anterior hypothalamus. There's muscle tension, and it's something you could call that a ceremony. 


So there's all kinds of activity going on. It's really a symphony of processes going on. And so part of the high excitation is to inhibit the pain and response in areas, but they're not shut off. It's an inhibitor. 


And the orgasm does have a generalized pain inhibitory effect. Many women have said that orgasm can inhibit menstrual pain, or back pain, leg pain. We've done studies on that, and even headache. So there is the inhibition, but there are other things going on. 


So we haven't characterized all the complexities of it, but there is generalized excitation, and there must be generalized inhibition going along with it. So the answer is yes. You heard him hear us. 


I'm so sorry. We're going to take this one last question. I know we were a little bit over time, this gentleman's been waiting a minute, and I'm sure you will find us, all of them, throughout the conference. 


Thank you all. We look forward to the process of care. My question is, is there a space in the process of care that's being made? out of space for more unique or specific orgasm issues, like perioral numbness afterwards, my veins are headaches afterwards, pain navigation movements, left arm, and needles afterwards. 


That's all under closed orgasm illness. That's a, I love your phrase, symphony of events going on. That's just, the belated comments up there are equally all the ones that you described, too. Okay, so that description wasn't the same. 


Somebody has all those things. I have to say, the panel is not very excited about doing POS, want to do another panel of POS separately, because it's a very confusing kind of orgasm. So I think that we will mention it and describe it, but we also have it in the definition. 


I think that these are going to be taking a large part of this paper, because maybe you say there might be another part of doing that. Thank you. Thank you. Applause 
