

She's currently serving as director of women's sexual health and male infertility and she's assistant professor at the University of California, Oregon. She starts in technological and sexual medicine comedies and she's a real expert on this topic so I'll leave it to her. 


Thank you so much. Thank you to Dr. Arsalan and Dr. Frank for their very thoughtful presentation. Thank you to both of you for taking this lecture. I'm excited to talk to you today about diet and sexuality and how we provide comprehensive care for couples experiencing sexual dysfunction. 


I have no disclosures but I'm looking for some so if there's a... See you around. I'll let you know. So I want to just very briefly talk a little bit about my path here. I'm curious, how many people are trainees or looking to start a sexual health clinic? 


So where I started from and where I am now is I feel so far apart that my path helped me in my practice now how I conceptualize sexual dysfunction for my patients. So I learned from a... So I have a history of sexual abuse as a child so I learned from a really early age about sexuality and how sexuality affects people and... 


Was there someone who said me too? And so I was really interested in kind of the psychological aspect of sexuality which, you know, 20, 30 years ago that was all kind of understood especially for women was the psychological aspect. 


So I went to graduate school thinking I would do therapy, do a mental health. therapy degree and treat psychological issues, but I somehow decided to go to medical school instead and I didn't get really any education during my mental health degree about sexuality, so it was a little bit disappointing in that sense, but in medical school I found urology, and there's a lot of urology that's really interesting as well, 


we get to play with lasers, we get to use a robot, so still kind of digressed away from my interest in sexuality, but finally, and this was during the robot case, there were five of us residents, five urology residents, I thought this was a really cool case, so I took a picture with all of us, but finally during my last couple years in urology residency I met Dr. 


Erwin Goldstein just by... total coincidence at AUA, he was giving his presentation, pictures of the female prostate, talking about how when we put in the slings, we cut all the nerves, and I was like, oh my god, I've done these sling surgeries, and I had no idea there were nerves there. 


So that's kind of how I got back to the sexuality side of the picture. So with Dr. Goldstein's support, and all of our fellowships, sisters and brothers, I've really been able to come back to sexual health practice. 


The last four years I was at a pasta university treating primarily men, so during residency and urology residency, we pretty much only learned about male sexual dysfunction, which is why when I met Dr. 


Goldstein, it was such a light bulb because I found a urologist who treated female sexual dysfunction as well. So I just moved to University of California Irvine where I'm seeing more women, so my goal is to see 50-50 male and female sexual health patients as well as general urology. 


And I think that really gives me, I think a really neat and interesting comprehensive perspective when I see patients. We often see patients, we see sexual dysfunction as an individual issue, we're focused on the patient in front of us, but it really, really happens in isolation. 


So it impacts both partners, so if we don't address both partners, we really miss this opportunity for meaningful treatment. So today I'll walk you through some real world cases to highlight how one partner's sexual dysfunction can affect the other, and how to use a multidisciplinary approach. 


We'll integrate urology, health and focus clarity, sex therapy to improve outcomes. And so in the real world, but practical approach, you know, we don't often see patients presenting together. Most of the time I see one patient first, you know, in the last four years I primarily saw men, so I saw the male partner first, and men often present with things like low libido, or erectile dysfunction, and then they also mention that their partner has an issue, 


and so I really encourage them, you know, if they have a brother partner, to schedule their partner for an appointment, so that we can address those issues as well. And so very rarely couples are coming in together for back-to-back appointments just from the get-go. 


They usually have to be seen one at a time first. So the cases that we'll go through, we'll go through about five cases. I think the cases where I see partners together are definitely the ones that stand out the most, and are the most interesting to me, I think, because I get to see. 


the whole perspective. I think we all are here because we find sexual health and sexuality interesting, so I think this really adds to my personal fulfillment of my career and decrease in burnout because this is really what is interesting to me. 


So our first case is a 65-year-old male with a retinal dysfunction refractory to medical treatment. He wants an inflatable, you know, prosthesis. So just to go over a little bit about a retinal dysfunction, you know, the penis is a big vein, essentially we need blood flow and nerve signal to get the blood into the penis. 


And so when we have dysfunction with, you know, things like diabetes, high blood pressure, anything that impacts the nerves going there, neuropathy, or blood flow into the penis, we cannot corrupt health dysfunction. 


So the initial treatments, first-line treatments are oral medications, PD-5 inhibitors, like Viagra or Cialis. We can also use vacuum erection devices. Injections, basically, I tell patients, injections are like basically a high-strength injectable version of Viagra or Cialis. 


It's got a few different components to it, but essentially, you know, that's the layman's term that I let them know to... And then finally, there is penile implants, which are surgically placed. So this is a picture of a penile implant. 


This is an inflatable prosthesis. There's also malleable prosthesis. So for the inflatable prosthesis, there's three different pieces. There is the reservoir, which is filled with saline or sterile saline fluid. 


There's the cylinders, which are in the penis, and then there's a pump that's in the stroke. So how you use it, you pump the pump in the scrotum, and everything's on the inside. There's a pump stop on the outside. 


everything's on the inside. So you pump the pump, and that moves the fluid from the reservoir into the cylinders in the penis to get your erection. The malleable version of this is just the cylinder. 


So it's like a plastic coated metal interior where it's just the cylinders and you basically just bend it up and down. Does anybody see male sexual dysfunction here? Okay, so there's a good number. So a number of you should know already what this is, but maybe this might be the present for some other people. 


So my patient, my 65 year old male who wants to inflatable feet on high-seizes tells me the first time he comes in, he hasn't, he didn't bring his wife, and he says, can I bring her in next time? I just, he don't want you to show her what this is. 


So, brings her the next time. She is a 62-year-old female who's Chinese-speaking only. They've been married for almost 15 years, but somehow they've gone by with him speaking only English and her only speaking Chinese. 


She thinks of me and of myself. And when I bring out the device, so I have the device. It's a model that I have in clinic that I bring out to show patients. This is the pump that you're on, and this is what these cylinders look like. 


So I bring this out, and his wife is completely confused. I'm using a translator. I know Chinese, but I don't know the medical terms. So we're talking through this translator, and she is just completely flabbergasted. 


She's like, what is going on here? Why are we here? And so I find out they have not been sexually active for probably five or 10 years, ever since she's been in menopause. And she also has issues with vaginal itching, dysuria, low libido. 


She has no interest in being sexually active, essentially. So there's a lot of barriers here. There's obviously the cultural language barrier, herd, disinterest. And then for on his side, his penis has shortened due to erect dysfunction. 


So he's concerned about his penile length, and then also related to the pump. You have to be able to have manual dexterity to inflate the device. So he's a little bit concerned about being able to inflate this device. 


So I'm not officially seeing her application yet. So when she mentioned she has vaginal itching and pain, I say, hey, schedule us, and then we'll come in and we'll do a public sample. So we do a public sample, like Florida. 


infection. We treat that. She also has GSM. I prescribe her vaginal estrogen and systemic estrogen and testosterone. We talked about testosterone for low libido, but she's not even at this point quite sure she's interested in sexual activity. 


So we're just treating her vaginal symptoms at this point. So we do eventually go forward with the surgery. She does great. She recovers. And I see them back both. I see them back with post-op appointments. 


She's there. She's kind of still like rolling her eyes a little bit. And you know eventually you know, get her GSM all taken care of. She's her vaginal pains improved. But I think at the end of the day she's still not very interested in sexual activity. 


And with a cultural component, you know, she... I think she mentions being Chinese that it's very unusual for people to continue to be sex reactors after menopause. And she said something like, oh these Americans, they just keep having sex. 


I think it's really interesting, but regardless, I refer them to sex therapy to work these issues out. But I think because of her cultural background and this kind of hesitancy to engage that sexual activity, he's essentially just using the implant for masturbation and self pleasure. 


Which I think is perfectly fine, as long as everyone is on the same page and understanding about that. So that was my first couple of therapy sessions. I have a 55 year old female with persistent genital rosin disorder, now also known as genital pelvic anesthesia. 


She has a past medical history of seizure disorder, parasthesia, neuropathy. She's been seen by spine and neuro. She has had no pathology found. She has significant traumatic experiences in the past, which we didn't really get into. 


She sees a therapist. She also has had MRIs, which have been normal. She's tried a number of different treatments. She had a pendant, amitriptyline, SSRIs. She's had pudendal blocks. Essentially, I think everyone probably knows what PJD is. 


But she has basically persistent dysesthesia, feeling like her clitoris, her vagina is on fire. Feeling like she's aroused all the time. And for the couple, they would... previously have sex multiple times a day, and that would help alleviate her symptoms, albeit only temporarily, that would be helpful for her. 


However, over the years, he's developed erectile dysfunction, and he now also has Peroni's disease. So, Peroni's disease, thanks to the ability of the tunica alveginia tissue, which is the outside tissue lining the spongy tissue inside the penis. 


So, you can get calcification or thickening of this tissue, and that can be due to traumatic events on the penis, like bending of the penis, canal fracture, It can also be, you know, the theory is that there can be micro tears or micro trauma of the penis for, you know, a lot of people don't recall any specific incident where they had a fracture, but over the years, you know, maybe some white growth injuries during sexual activity. 


So this calcification or plaque buildup causes curvature of the penis and also causes shortening of the penis. So, you know, like Dr. Hartzell said, a lot of these patients, they're not just concerned about function, they're also in extremely high distress about the length of loss. 


You know, if we say a typical or a normal, quote, unquote, normal penis length, or after, I should say, is five inches plus some, I often see periodic patients who have such severe shortening of, like, they're down to like one inch or two inches, so very severe shortening along with the curvature. 


So, for assessment and treatment of heroin disease, the first thing I do is, you know, a lot of ultrasound, so I'm looking for the plaque, so I can see the plaque on ultrasound. I'm also looking for the curvature, so I'm measuring the curvature during an erect state, so that it gives them an injection of trinus to get them erection and then measure the curvature. 


And I also measure the blood flow of the penis. So this patient had a, you know, length both stretched and erect, you know, length of 9.5 centimeters. His curvature was 30 degrees upwards, dorsal, and then 15 degrees to the right. 


And then his blood flow, heaps of solid velocity, on the left was 6.4 and on the right was 5.3. Those are very low, so normal should be over 30. at the minimum and then so below that is considered abnormal and reflective of the rectile dysfunction. 


These are some pictures from this ultrasound, so on the left side is a transverse view, so you see the two corpora cavernosum next to each other and then below is the corpora cavernosum which is the urethra and then at the top here this is where the plaque is. 


You should be able to see the tunica very defined, so for example right here the tunica is normal, it's very defined white line but here you see it's kind of muddled and thickened there and then the longitudinal view is where I'm measuring the systolic velocity. 


The treatments for cavernous disease, there is some non-invasive treatment for starts with you know, traction, so using a device or manually to actually stretch the penis. So you're just like you're stretching any other part of your body, you can manually stretch and restore some length. 


You know, it doesn't go back to normal, but it can restore some length and improve curvature some. The next line of treatment is diaphlex injection. So this is also known as collagenase. So the plaque is collagen, so collagenase is the enzyme that basically chews up the plaque, the collagen plaque. 


And so this is injected directly into the plaque. Injected directly into the plaque. And they get a series of treatments, typically eight total treatments over the course of six months or so, and that's been shown to improve curvatures by anywhere from 15 to 50 or 40 percent. 


unfortunately for, on the female side, this lady, because of her trauma and history, she actually was very disruptive in clinic and our clinic manager dismissed her from practice. She was yelling at everyone, so I wasn't able to treat her for her PGAD, but her husband continued to come in for his diaphlex, and he treated his peronease disease, and was able to correct his curvature significantly, so hopefully they are back to being sexually active. 


The next case is a 55-year-old male with an EDM from a cherry jack-o'-lantern. He has a lot of frustration and performance anxiety related to this. His partner is a 53-year-old female with a history of Parkinson's, low libido, vaginal dryness. 


penetration so she's been avoiding intimacy. For this you want to consider for both sides all aspects of treatments of pharmacological behavioral sex therapy. So for him, I was able to treat him successfully with daily Cialis. 


So typically Cialis is, you know, was previously just, you know, really just used for erectile dysfunction but it's really been shown that it's a good impact for premature ejaculation as well. So it can both include the length of time to ejaculation as well as let the patient, let the person have a continued erection even after the first time. 


For her, we treated her with vaginal and systemic estrogen. This was effective for her vaginal dryness and improved her pain. She also went to the public physical therapy, which is very helpful. And then for the low libido, we had her on Abbey for three months. 


That didn't seem to make a huge effect, so at the last visit, she was prescribed IBC. So we're waiting to see if that's the problem. The fourth case, actually for the sake of time, we'll skip the fourth case, we'll do the fifth one. 


So our fifth case is the 68-year-old male, with erectile dysfunction, he's already got an IPP. I actually didn't see this patient. This patient was seen by one of my colleagues who placed the IPP, but his partner, a 49-year-old female, was referred to me by my colleague, because after he got the implant, she complained, of course, that she was having pain, and that they couldn't really use the implant effectively. 


So I see her to kind of get an idea of what's going on, and so she describes that it's just too big. She can't get it in, having difficulty putting it in, it kind of comes out really easily. And of note, she's no apparent, she's never had children before, she's only had two parasexual partners, and she hasn't been sexually active in 10 years. 


And then just noting her physical appearance, she's very fit. She's a kind of a typical orange county person, who I haven't seen those patients out, but she's very, very athletic, she's very fit, never had children. 


So on exam, you see that her pelvic floor isn't necessarily, she doesn't have a great, she doesn't have severe pelvic floor dysfunction, but it's just very tight. And I think one of the things, I didn't see him, but one of the things I would want to do is to educate him about the device, because from her perspective, he is actually inflamed. 


this device too much. There's two primary devices that we use. One is cold class and one is the Boston Scientific. And the main difference between these two that I like to say is the cold class is a little bit harder and the Boston Scientific feels a little bit more natural because it's a little bit softer actually. 


So he has the cold class device and he has been told by my colleague to inflate it to 120 percent. So it is very hard and I don't know how many of you have seen this thing inflated like a model but it like can look like it's about to burst. 


So he's inflating it like kind of more than he actually needs to which is what his partner she's trying to tell me is that she thinks he's inflating it too much. But you know on exam you know her pelvic floor muscles are kind of tight. 


She does F G S M. She's kind of in that period menopause, postmenopause kind of. stage so we do start bachelor's student and she's going to see pelvic floor physical therapy and I would love to see them both in clinic to let him know that he doesn't have to inflate his breast cancer. 


So again multi-disciplinary team super important you know for me as the urologist I do the medical and surgical interventions but our pelvic floor physical therapy colleagues really work to address pain, pelvic floor dysfunction, muscular issues and sex therapy is really helpful to improve communication and emotional barriers. 


So I really rely on my sex therapist and pelvic floor therapist like essentially everyone gets referral. So thank you very much for having me. 
