

And today is the axis that we have done the work. It's this marvelous group that works so much for this document. And I'm going to try to give you some highlights of what we're calling in this document, but it's probably going to be highlights because we have so much there, so I can describe everything during my talk here. 


So those are my disclosures. I don't have any conflict interests with this paper. So what we have done is we have taken a very broad view on orgasm, and you will hear about also discussing what is an orgasm, what is the physiology, but also how do we define orgasmic problems. 


And one of the five things that I would emphasize is that we have decided to use a definition which was defined by history. And I think that makes a lot of sense because all definitions talking about orgasmic disorders, they talk about frequency, how often do we have an orgasm, is there decreased frequency, does it absent, how is the intensity, is there a decrease in intensity, and how is the timing, 


does it take a long time to get an orgasm. But what is so nice about the one, this definition is that it also includes pleasure. So we also have a consideration of how pleasurable is the orgasm that we have. 


And we talk about anti-zoning orgasm. So that's why we have to find this one, and this is why we stick with this definition instead of using maybe the definition of I think 11 of this in five. The other thing that we will look at is in the paper. 


And I think this is so important when we go through the clinical work, and we want clinicians to use our work, is that women can use an orgasm in so many different ways. And this is just later from one study. 


Michael was involved in women from the U.S. But if you ask women not to use an orgasm, we all know that if you ask them. Some will say please, of course. Some might explain the stimulation by their hand or by a vibrator. 


or by oral sex, or also by anal insecticide. But very crucial in our discussions in the paper is that we need to talk about the women, how they stimulate it, what are they who prefer to stimulate, and maybe it's one of our teachers that got into this. 


When it comes to the prevalence of orgasmic problems, I would say it's really difficult to really get a picture of it. This is from the same study I showed you before, when you asked the women that, over the past four weeks, how often, when you have stations, they would basically do regional orgasm. 


And you can see here that quite a lot of women say that never make female orgasm, only a few times at some times, and about 60% say it's always or most of the time. But is this important? How do we define orgasmic problems? 


I showed you the definition. When we look to the samples, we find that studies report orgasmic problems in women varying from about 4% to 80%, and that's quite difficult, so what are we going to say about this? 


So what it is about is it depends on how to redefine an orgasmic problem. Does she need to have an orgasmic, every time she has sexual activity? How is that is designed? Who is the population? What are the measures we're using to estimate the problem? 


If we ask verity, does it have to have a certain kind of verity before we call it that dysfunction? And do we include distress in the definition? So what we can say is that overall, when we look at the pictures, these are the data from the Shiffman study done quite many years ago where they asked about low orgasmic accuracy, but also distress, and then you see that when women get older, it becomes more difficult to have an orgasm. 


They have more orgasmic problems, but the distress is lower. So when we combine it, that yellow box, then we see about the same level. But it tells us that maybe older women have more problems in basic orgasm. 


And I think that's also the same experience. This is from another study. The famous study, the population study, where they asked women whether they have had distress in problems with reaching orgasm in the last year. 


And here you can see that the younger women said they had distress in problems reaching orgasm. So one of the conclusions is that maybe it is the younger women and the older women that really have orgasmic problems, when we look at population studies. 


So that's one of the take-home instances we'll come out with in our paper. Not saying that the other groups don't have it, but making these under groups for different reasons like things that have problems in reaching orgasm. 


Some of the things we are also dealing with is that what are the factors that actually are beneficial or negative for women reaching orgasm? And we discussed the orgasm gap, the fact that men reach orgasm more than women when they have sex. 


We also have to discuss the orgasm for men. But this is just to emphasize, this study showed that women having sex with women. And the moral should reach orgasm when they have sex, compared to women who have sex with both women and women compared to heterosexual women. 


So this tells us that it's very important to discuss the women, how do they have sex, and who do they have sex with, in order to find out who can really get the stimulation that they need to get an orgasm. 


So this brings us to how to receive your orgasm from the orgasm. It's influenced by so many biopsychosocial factors. I couldn't tell you some of those things. A lot of work would be better to carry on, but we know more about the baby pool and visualizing than once. 


So what I like about our paper and our work is that, usually when we look at, we make a paper about the process of care, we look very much at what are the risk factors for having sex with this country. 


But we have quite a lot of data looking at what are the promoting factors we're having to discuss. as a positive aspect for women, because we can learn quite a lot also when we go to recovery treatment problems. 


So people who look at promoting psychosocial behavioral factors and the data behind that will find out that women who are mindful to insert an external sexual cues, they have easier access to having an orgasm. 


It promotes their low sexual capacity. If they have positive sexual attitudes that they like sex, they have the perception that sex is important, they have committed to this, they have different attitudes towards sex but also towards control. 


That's a positive factor for them being able to have a orgasm. Communion and communication about sexual health, about their own sexuality, assertiveness, the way you communicate about sex, how you can initiate and also refuse sexual activity. 


If you are able to facilitate your preferred sexual behavior, also have the possibility of rejecting your non-preferred behavior. I mean, it's not rocket science, but I think we get it very often when we talk to the women and the way women have sex, because I think a lot of women have sex they don't like, but they prefer sex they have. 


So this talk into that, there are so many factors that actually most people have to look at. If they have a low sexual technique, if they lose all their sex, if they have full trade, if the women are acting in intercourse, if they use a vibrator, that shows that they have a variety of their sexual behavior and they can maybe change it from time to time to find out what is my preferred behavior to make at this moment. 


And also there are studies showing that if women from early age learned how to master, they helped out their kids of course, how to work, how not to do it as children, but you know in cultures where women are allowed to explore anything before they get married, that's actually not very good for their orgasm capacity. 


because they don't like how to do it. So I think it's just very nice about our work here that we look at our promoting factors. We also look at the negative factors and I've got a problem with my cycle, valuable factors and we know that how some feelings are very important for how do we get an orgasm. 


So we know that repetitive or mad and negative thoughts various beliefs about an orgasm and anxiety will cause a narrowing of the retention to performing concerns. So the women will start being anxious, they will start to be anxious about failing about not having the orgasm and that's gonna be limited. 


We know that if women have lack of erotic thoughts during sexual activity, perhaps they should be abused as a sedative, poor body image and lack of affection from the partner or from the partner, it has a negative impact. 


So it's a little bit the opposite of my previous slide. So there are all the positive things now so I guess. If they have a lot of self-critical, negative, formatic thoughts that prevents them of focusing on erotic scheduling, and for most all these negative emotions like sadness, delusions, this illusionism, guilt, and lack of patience, grace, that's a negative factor there on the psychological level for these women, 


reasonable answers. You also know that distraction, like with co-spectatoring, is that if the woman starts seeing herself from the outside, like a third person is judging, oh, now I'm doing this, now I'm doing that. 


Instead of being in the moment and being mindful of what is going on, it will increase the worrying about sex. It will distract through the sexual cues, and again, that will inhibit the orgasm. And some women also have the feeling that they're really afraid of letting go, their fear of using the control they use when they have an orgasm. 


So that also creates a very high level of level in these women, and that's really not very good to put their ability to have an orgasm. So we have a lot of photos of these psychological factors in the paper. 


So that means that when we assess the women, we need to ask them about what is the orgasmic problem? Is it asthma, is it delay, is it reduced, is it not pleasurable? What is the level of distress? What is it distress about? 


Has it always been there? Is it only in some situation? Is it something that occurred a year ago? I mean, is it a quiet life long, generalized, situational? Are there other sexual problems? Because maybe it's not the major problem that it doesn't have an orgasm, but there might be other sexual problems. 


We have medical conditions, medications that can explain the problem, and the psychological relationship, or social factors that can explain the problem. And I think very, very important, does she get the stimulation she needs? 


And it's very sensitive to ask about that, because a lot of women would say, yeah, yeah, we'll get on like it, especially if we have this in the room. I think some people should be asking about that. 


And not to say, especially in the treatment room. So, when it comes to treatment, I try to make some pillars, and I'm not going to go through all of them, but I think that we have basic counseling, changes in medication, treatment of underlying conditions. 


We have direct investigation that I'm going to talk about since April, because we had the more crafted period was better, because we are very, very important, given all the psychological factors we have, and we have other, and there are other children's mindfulness. 


So, the take-home kind of take-home line is that I think it's so basic that we need to inform and educate about it. Having said that, Erwin and Barry were talking about medication and the more physiological and medical aspects of it. 


My approach to it is that we can do it, treat the woman as an individual, we can treat her as a part of the couple, and sometimes we need to combine it. I was saying that... We need to treat her alone. 


If she's not able to reach an orgasm alone, I will start with her because she needs to learn how to have an orgasm by herself. You cannot expect the partner to give it to her if she doesn't know how to get it. 


And you can do that in many, many ways. You can use phyrophysiology, cuspase, and write a literature for not wanting to depend on what she likes. She needs to self-investigate herself. You can introduce phyrophysiology, careless exercises, she needs to explore what is pleasurable stimulation. 


Maybe use a vibrator. Maybe you need to include mindfulness, a therapy with focus on anxiety and psychological factors, as well as what are her experiences. Is she spectacularly, and what is her sexual script? 


So there's so many different methods we can use, but I would apply them to her as an individual person. And one of the things that we actually have data on in the scientific literature is directed masturbation, that these women might have to learn how to masturbate. 


And you will step by, skip the exposure to genital stimulation. So self-investigate, if it was stimulation, you can combine it with the psychological approaches. So how does she get more attention to sexual cues? 


How does she investigate what's pleasurable for her? And then you will uncover all her unhelpful attitudes and beliefs, all her anxiety, and maybe also the space victory. So that's like both a very behavioral therapy, but there's also a more cognitive behavioral therapy. 


If she's in a couple and she cannot reach orgasm with the partner, but by herself, I think it makes so much sense to include the partner. So you need to find out how do they communicate about sex? How is their science available? 


What are the sexual scripts in the company? Do they always do the same? Do they have the same story telling about what sex is? What is God's safe for them? Is it audience, of course? What is the partner's reaction? 


Does the partner... have sexual problems, like what's the dynamic in the couple. And then you can introduce many of these other methods, like sensei focus, focus and pleasure, adequate stimulation, maybe they can have sex toys, changing position, really have a focus on how we get most pleasure out of sexual activities together. 


So we will have a focus on all these aspects in this paper, and so this is just to introduce that we have the biopsychosocial frame, and I've talked about some of it, and I'll leave the floor to my colleagues who will continue to talk about the other part of the paper. 


Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
