

Hey, I'm not here to see you! Hey, hey, ladies! I need to be after this one to end this one more job. There's this amazing exercise in the history of the world. Whose first time is it? It's like stripping out. 


Whoo! Holy crap! Hey, so I want to meet all of you. I want to thank all of you. Just say thank you to all of you. And I want to teach you on committees. If you love me, I'd like to. If you like that, you're curious. 


I'll take part of it. I'll ask you. This is really important. I want to thank you for making this really special. I'm so thrilled that this is gonna be you. I'm so happy that you're here. So everybody involved in Social Media. 


And I'm gonna call our followers because I wanna support you, our new followers. But I want to support you to work. I wanna give you little tidbits, little tricks. I want you to read what my colleagues are doing. 


I want you to study for research and all those things. So follow us on social media. Again, you are all amazing. For showing what I'm here. Like, your patients are so incredibly lucky. You don't spend enough time sitting with that. 


Like, you don't spend enough time sort of being nice to yourself and appreciating yourself, or what a huge frickin' feeling it is that you are here at this conference. So give yourself some love. Woo-hoo! 


Um, I, um, I don't know everything. That's why I live this way, actually. I will do that a couple weeks ago, okay? And I've changed my practice fundamentally. So that's what makes this field fun, is it's wide open. 


And so it's fun, because you can contribute. You can have operations. You can learn new things. So we need you, we need you, we need you in this field. We need you, whether you're doing research, education, advocacy, membership, we need all of it, and we need it in bucketful. 


So, we're truly, truly valued. Um, again, as a sexual medicine specialist, which you're all entering, you do four things. So you need to do all of the four things. I do four things, right? It's not a little desire, orgasm, or pain. 


That's it. It seems complicated, but stick with us in our framework, and we'll make you all sex detectives. Figure out what do I need to do to figure out this challenge? in case that's in front of me. 


I turned 40 last year, which is very exciting, and my birthday present to myself was my dream of this YouTube channel. It's unsilly, but this is here for you guys. I am trying to have videos of every question that ever existed on the back of a restroom. 


So if you only have 10 minutes in the exam room, you can say, hey, here's my shield. You're gonna hear about a third of it. Here's a YouTube channel where these crazy ladies are gonna answer all my questions. 


And if there are more questions, we will try to make more videos. And so this is really, really important video. I didn't say that, so I won. this and this is how to write it, so this is the other thing we did, we created this, this is what brings me joy you guys, so we created this resource for you guys, which is just a tear sheet, we're going to print it, but a tear sheet of literally a one-pager, 


this is what January is, and we're going to pause it, because that's the YouTube channel, that's how to write the damn prescription, okay, so this is how to write the damn prescription, so here we need to print it out, and put it under your darker thing, like we're going to write the damn prescription, and every one of your colleagues, this is not specialty medicine, it should be standard practice for every primary care, 


gynecologist, neurologist, this is easy stuff, you don't need to be, you know, an English scholar to prescribe the damn batch of hormones, with me, who prescribes batch of hormones every single day, so I love all of them, you're doing that first, you're saving lives, but more importantly, we did it in a bigger scale, because they write in their 22 billion dollars a year, so this is actually life and death work, 


and so my job today, if I don't have enough time, which I never do, is to show you, if there's one tip, I want you to open mine, so if there's one trick I can give you about batch of hormones, if there's one way I can fix your marketing, because you will suck at marketing, right, because you will start at what you do, because you give the right prescription, and they'll do it wrong, they won't fill it, 


they won't use it, they won't put enough on, and so it kind of can just feed your brains, to get excited about this, and to like, just tweak how you sell it, you must sell hard to get into surgeries, men can kill people, you sell your health, it's like, hey, it's me and your partner, because I'm going to shoot a horse, like, you sell, like, and you sell batch of hormones, the other piece of this, 


and then each of y'all get your cell phones out, this is serious stuff, as we unboxed labeling, one of batch of hormones, as you're reading the short, well thought, heart attacks, dementia, all of that, as you know, is key. 


We all complain, especially today, that our wages don't matter. Send the damn letters to the FDA to say, I'm a clinician. You are literally hurting if you're killing patients. It takes two seconds to fill this out. 


It's a non-profit that I encourage you all to fill it out. You with me so far? All right, all right. So we complain and have that. I hate you, man. I love you, you matter, okay? I'm your own. I love my editor. 


I love Seattleists. We complain. Well, there's nothing for women. There's nothing for women. I call bullshit. Excuse my language. We have had female Viagra since before male Viagra. We have had it since the 1970s. 


We have a marketing problem, my friends, because female Viagra is alive and well. It's called vaginal hormones, okay? What does Viagra do? It creates arousal, erections, blood flow. What does vaginal hormones do? 


It creates arousal, erections, blood flow. It holds the orgasm. Guess what? Seattleists, which is a Viagra competitor. It's a little better. It helps with urinary symptoms, frequency, urgency, BPH, just so virginal estrogen or DHEA do, helps with frequency, urgency, all these urinary symptoms, and guess what? 


Vaginal estrogen can save less hair within six to $22 billion a year because vaginal hormones, both estrogen and DHEA, prevent urinary tract infections by more than half. My friends, this is the marketing problem. 


This is not a little vaginal finance. This is not, oh, I'm just, I need to add a little moisturizer or lubricant. This is life and death medicine. I could say if you're a taxpayer, there's a lot of money, actually. 


Maybe no one wants to be here. I doubt it's okay. So, this is serious stuff. You guys, for seven million hospitals, this is annually 25% of all infections for older people. If you get a UTI, more expenses related to UTI for older patients, a third of the total Medicare and yearly dollars spent on their care. 


This is big business, okay? We wrote a paper, again, this is why I think this matters. We wrote a little dinky paper in the Urology Practice Journal. How many times have you guys picked up the Urology Practice Journal? 


Literally never. So, if we go on social media and we yell about it, then more people can hear about this important research and understand that if we actually use vaginal estrogen, we could save six to $22 billion. 


That's a conservative estimate, a billion to the B. And when we yell about this research on social media, other people do research. This is what's so cool. This is a neuropsychology journal, a much more respectable journal than the Urology Practice Journal. 


And they looked at this, too, and they looked at vaginal hormones and said hundreds of millions and billions of dollars could be saved if we just prescribed it from cheaper pharmacies, like hospitalist drugs and all of these things. 


So, by getting loud on social media, we are creating more research, more change. more advocacy, and it's super, super exciting. So, ISWISH is the reason all of this has happened. It is used to be called, as it kind of still is, and it has to be called, Opal Vaginal Atrophy. 


A, Tropic Nachionitis, it's not a damn infection. These are wrong terminology. And in 2014, ISWISH got together with a group of peoples and we must change the name of this. And actually, it was one guy that ain't early going to see one and see him. 


There's almost one guy over, one neurologist in the room, who said, I will not leave this room, so be afraid of the word, you're already under the term. He did it with one guy. And so, my God, he wants to be your your symptoms and actually save people's lives, right? 


Don't get me wrong, the sex stuff is important, but the your issues are life-saving, okay? So, we now call it GSM, genital urerear syndrome of menopause. And his point is, in pain with sex, it's changing the word genital arousal. 


But it's more than math. It's irritation, burning, itching. It's pain with urination. It's urinary frequency and urgency. And the thing that kind of does feel our patients and loved ones is recurrent urinary tract infection. 


I have never been in this lecture and not many people come and talk to my grandma, my aunt, my mother, die of UTI. Every time I post about on Instagram, 27 people say my grandma, my mother, my aunt, die of urinary tract infection. 


This is not theoretical, this is real. And you can see this with your eyeballs, which you learn from Dr. Sinha. You can see the changes. You can see the lady, I get viral on TikTok, my friends, and I'm not on TikTok, okay? 


Because the viewer posts are all about me acting like an interviewee, which they did not. He said millions of people watched a video of me talking about a video of an oral, and I was not involved in the process at all. 


I was never there. The lady and the viewer shrivel up and disappeared in menopause, a neighbor's version that happened. She was getting through her eyeballs. If penis and shirble dug at HMD2, you could have a vaccine from her eyesight. 


I'm not gonna tell you. I'm not gonna tell you. I'm not gonna tell you. You guys are not monitoring. You're not talking in a new television and her baby just shirbles up and disappears. You go viral on TikTok. 


It's crazy, right? And so it's really, this is funny and joking. This is serious. This isn't mad. I'm obsessed with the lady in Oregon. I mean, this is the only one. You can tell me. Is that true? Is it progesterone? 


Is it testosterone? Why is it babies don't have them? You get them in puberty, you lose them in menopause. Our body is certain. No one knows the answer to this. So our research team is obsessed with this topic now, right, because I want to know answers, and hopefully we'll continue to ask the questions. 


So in 2019, the American Theoretical Association gave a big, a big present, and they said, if you have someone with a progesterone or a jacked infection, not just in menopause, but in caring menopause. 


who better handle using vaginal estrogen as it is evidence-based and be sure to give you vaginal estrogen. Now there are any ways to do the next step, because we add the data on social media, literally on their prisons, and now we're doing a full guideline just on GSM. 


It's a huge deal, and hopefully we'll get to the next year. Again, their data came back in the 90s in the legal journal of medicine. It showed that vaginal hormones prevented guys. Here's a more recent paper, and a job will show a decrease by over 50%. 


We just published an internal menopause and a DHEA, instead of vaginal estrogen, to also get a decrease in UTIs by more than half, regardless of their diabetes, or anything like that, or any other normal activity, vaginal DHEA space-wise, just like vaginal estrogen, which is very exciting. 


And guess what? It's not just a menopause, okay? If you go to a 35-year-old, your current UTI is a vaginal hormone. For anyone who's heard me teach about how well they were being in the past, my favorite saying is, what are you afraid of? 


Right? Okay. You've got a 35-word word for it, but if she has a big question about your question, what are you afraid of? Not really. Not really. Not really. Not really. It's a whole new yourself. It's not really going to be afraid of this moment. 


It's a dumb thing. So it's not just about men. It's for what we actually messed up calling it GSM, right? And there's actually research topics about that in this meeting because it's not just menopause. 


It's saying more and more changes. First and foremost, you just heard. Lactation, you just heard this meeting last year that we coined the term, I know it was two years ago, that we coined it last year, that we coined the term genital urinary syndrome of lactation. 


And not only did Sarah publish on it, but she's going to be presenting her data at the podium later today on a systematic review that we've done that is actually in the edits of a very, very journal, which is very exciting. 


So we are getting into new terms. Who is it known for that? You've never seen a pregnant woman who's known that GSM was a thing, but without having to determine knowledge into it, how are you going to study it properly, right? 


So this is not just menopause. So if you have a trans male, you may see GSM-like symptoms, right? So understand hormonal status. And again, it can happen before menopause, right? There are 30-year-olds that have prostate testosterone, and it can happen well after menopause. 


There are 60, 70-year-olds. Your 70-year-old patient will never associate with UCI with menopause because, oh dear, menopause was years ago, right? It was years ago. So you have to educate, educate, educate. 


So how do you do it? You have to examine patients with your eyeballs. You just got a great lesson on how to do exams. Again, every patient can look at this and know which one they want, okay? If you're one on the right, you can't sit, you can't wipe, you can't play ball, you're not a friend. 


And I don't think we're great children without thinking like this person is miserable, and you don't have to live with them. Again, you're going to see patients with constipation because they're not sexually active. 


And there was all the reporters who were taken and they just presented with constipation. That whole art festival is red, it's raw, it's irritated, and they're pH. When I started my practice three years ago, about two things, pH paper and two years on Amazon. 


And I'm going to do that. It's all you need. It's all you need. It's got to be two. It's got to be two too. It's got to be pH, right? It's seven and a half. But look at how on her mind looks after some professional DHEA, and only that her pH naturally gets better. 


Guess what? She does not anymore. Terrible constipation, right? So you have options here. Here's the deal. I literally had a patient who emailed me this week and said, I'm canceling my new patient visit. 


I was like, how did your patient move? I'm canceling my new patient. because, mind her, one college said there's nothing anyone who can help me, that it is hopeless. So I'm not going to step up on you and travel to see you because you can't help me. 


And what does that say? It's a term accepted. So give me a little word of what's going on with you, and I'll tell you why I think it's hopeless. And she wrote her whole thing for her UTIs, seated, sepsis, almost dead. 


She's on all the medications. She's on every course of women. You can pay for it on the internet. And she said, Ashley and I are operating a dad twice a week on my re-drive. And I said, get your butt in here. 


Wake up. I'm going to fix this. I'm going to fix this with a YouTube video, right? She would have a white prescription, a well-being doctor, and she would do it alone, right? Okay, a dad was actually, you can put a dad of Ester in on your re-drive as much as you want every day. 


I don't care. That's right. Getting in the vagina, you must acidify the tissue. You must, must moisturize the whole vagina. So you use enough and the doctor will say, what are you afraid of? I'm afraid of it. 


Okay, so if you're going to use a cream, the creams are the cheapest. So if your patient does insurance and has no money, a possible sepsis visit is much more expensive than a $13 or two of estrogen cream, okay? 


And so you have to sell it to them. They don't know what this is in it, right? So you should go to our two-part YouTube channel. We all said there is an hour lecture for free. You can listen to every detail. 


You can hear it. Show it to your friends, show it to your friends, your family members. Go get a lecture. Don't get it taken if it's not enough. I will give you more. I will give you as much free content on GSM as you will tolerate. 


So if you want at least a gram every day for two weeks and then twice a week, don't that do part, Ms. Jones, okay? It's this language that makes sense, okay? There is preparation for you. Again, not my favorite, it's expensive. 


It has a horse urine, it has a little alcohol base, and not my favorite, extra dialed inserts. This is more expensive cash pay, but very well covered by insurance, and it's a lot less messy than a pretty. 


It's an insert, it goes every day for two weeks, or twice a week, so a debt, we use art, okay? It's not that challenging. In Betsy, it's a brand new course, I'm sexy. I have a company that's got bought by another company here, so maybe we'll see more of it. 


There's no athlete here, so if you have a teacher and you're eco-friendly, great, here's an option for them, too. We've got a toolbox. Intra-Rosa's DHEA, which is the only androgen-approved FDA-approved product, right? 


Yes, it's not just estrogen. If you've learned nothing from this course, you want to just offer them the thinking of women, okay? Our agenda rules have to also accept her, so the DHEA actually may help you now if they can't afford it. 


or it is in terms of cover it, these are the best, right, that is not the answer. And E-string is a local vaginal estrogen product, they may be bettering, which is a systemic vaginal estrogen product. 


E-string might be a progesterone of the other uterus. E-string, you do not need a progesterone limit. Great for people with more than a spirit of dementia. There is a pale, it's absurd, so it's going to have more side effects than micro-dosing, local vaginal hormone products. 


So if you're going to use a micro-gird, you're going to hear about micro-dosing and vaginal micro-gird, it's all original. It's a bad argument, I've been using that, but I've been using it too much time, so I don't know, we believe it's okay. 


Education, everything, you guys stink at this, right? Like, the location for a fact that they haven't been using it is you are to blame, not them, you stink at this. I stink at this, I feel like we should just come back and have them done it, right? 


We can always get better at marketing. If it's too goopy, if it's too messy, if you're like my mother-in-law, and it's in her bathroom drawer and I'm open, it does not work, okay? If they don't refill it, it doesn't work. 


It takes two to three months to work, probably. If the patient needs that, but the only thing that says, holy crap, after I've been trying to kill me, it really does not work. Nobody tries and sparrows vaginal hormones, period, and it's like this, right? 


You may need physical therapy, you may need ventricle therapy, you may need instance foundation. So if you're going and putting Botox in every orifice, and you're doing all these crazy things and they're non-natural hormones, just think of me on your shoulder, Jasmine. 


Okay? Another thing, don't do your other therapy. It's like, come on, people, foundations are important, it takes time. How long do you need to take this? Easy, forever, so that's gonna be hard. When you stop brushing your teeth, when you stop washing your face, you wear a chassis prank when you sound bad. 


Like this. So if you don't want to be 19 years or so with booty eyes, this is a non... emotional, okay? I agree I'm very aggressive about this, but you know, at least someone has to do that. So if your patient's on a patch, or if someone had a systemic estrogen, add vaginal hormones, because you're not afraid of nothing, you're not afraid of nothing, you're not increasing your risk, you're not increasing how much estrogen, 


you might hurt dosing that is going to help her. Safety information. I'm not going to do it in just 30 seconds, but literally this, because I can happen to be swirling her face around instead of paying attention to my children, I would show them that a new study came out yesterday. 


That's why I should be using the breast cancer survivors as a systematic review of meta-analysis of recurrence and mortality risk. Thank you for answering your questions, it's like making it all be in all these people. 


Conclusions. Use of vaginal estrogen patients with a history of breast cancer does not appear to be associated with increased risk of recurrence. Breast cancer mortality or overall mortality. Take a picture if you'd like. 


If you had 50,000 breast cancer patients and relative vaginal estrogen, have less mortality. Less mortality. So again, if you want to hear more safe information, I have slides for today that every YouTube video that we've ever done, the data here, the slides will be for you. 


But the important thing is vaginal hormones are therapeutic, they're preventative, they're non-devotional, they're always related. 
