

Hi, everyone. My name is Olivia, and I'm with the other Surgical Health Faculty. I was there to deal with this. Very much to work with Dr. Sejna. I'm still over a bit. Women's Health Faculty, so I'm wondering if you would just get a whole roll in to start sort of before we all get it right, which is probably a little bit of a problem. 


But, um, not that there is no way to say it. That's it. Thank you. My name is Sophie, and I just want to kind of provide you with one of the sheet-class sexual health guidelines of how to use this application. 


And we're going to be referring to women on a female and we're going to show that this is not, um, it's not completely inclusive. So, let's first talk about our objectives. We want to define the role of testosterone in the second function of physiology or people born of ovaries. 


Um, whoa, sorry. Um, we're going to look through the guidelines for testosterone and the treatment of HCD, and talk about who are the appropriate candidates for testosterone therapy at this time, and demonstrate how to safely prescribe testosterone and monitor patients. 


Um, you can probably get a little bit of redundancy. Um, in the beginning, so I'll try to do that pretty quickly. Um, a case example of a patient that might come into your clinic, a 56-year-old post-med health or women's health clinic in the low libido, to make you picked up on any religion of, um, decreased sexual satisfaction in the past two years. 


She's been in menopause for five years. She's noticed a very gradual disappointment in her sexual desire. She's frustrated in her relationship. There's no pain as a component to the dysfunction. She feels less responsive. 


No history of any kind of cancer, particularly with classical disease. But she does have a hypertension. Um, she does have a psychiatric diagnosis. And she's already, um, optimized on her traditional post-medal estrogen and intestinal waste from her place of inheritance. 


And, um, I'll try to do that. Normal physical exam, lower exam, normal blood work. We do check testosterone levels, and we'll get into a little bit of the nuance of that later on, if we can find one way to do that. 


Normal lipid levels of the function. And we're gonna talk a little bit about the basic ex-social mode briefly, but of course there's no lifestyle counseling, they wanna move the aging first. We'll get into testosterone therapy, testosterone therapy considerations, and how you move on under that. 


And then after three months, I'm sparing of course a noticeable increase in intersectional desire and group intimacy with both side of everything, that's perfect. So let's think about how we do that. 


So just a quick reminder, our DSPS, I won't go into it, it's just somebody that's on the call like somebody coming to the school yesterday. And again, we wanna make sure that we're approaching all of the different facets that go into low sexual desire, you know, hormones are just one piece of this puzzle. 


And bringing up that biopsychosocial model is just incredibly important to me, because I think, especially in the era of social media, predatory supplements, misinformation, and no flap-tracking, that people come in and may just demand one single thing, similar to what we've seen in our mail counterparts about our own single things, and setting expectations that that just doesn't really exist for our traditional email patients, 


and that the people who are the most successful are the most really embraced the entire model, not picking and choosing what they want to do within that model. So just, I always agree with on that. And again, we just have, how to just break out what's in the development of it. 


You know, writers are the multi-factorial, my multi-factorial effects that we have on the brain. And I'm sure everyone is a little bit triggered right now with this really bad part. I'm sorry about that a lot. 


But, you know, we just want to remember this series, and this is a pathway. We're currently in adrenal cortex, ovaries, and adrenal cortex, and majority 50% of we're full of tissues. And making sure we know key players here, you know, our adrenal players are ovaries and we're under, are making, and we're producing organs, and we're only quite over, and not making a change over time in one's life. 


A reminder, again, of the centralization of the desire for health, and the desire of cruising through this, because I want to make sure we get to talking about the strategy, and to the patients for that. 


And this is really important, because society prefers that we put things into these black and white boxes, and doesn't seem to care about the agenda, the fact that we are free in one's own games. And it, like, through the language is really important. 


And the fact that a test sees it in testosterone inherently gives ownership of that part of our own. And that's just objective with us. And so, you know, language matters, and people with testes kind of have this formula, despite the fact that we make three to five, three to four times more testosterone in our lifetime than testosterone. 


And so, reminding our patients about that this isn't us giving them a man's hormone, like if you also are a testosterone vegan. I wish you'd say so, but that's the thing. This has been a reminder again, like, you know, we talk about a lot of people, they come in demanding that you check their labs, or they've got your reading labs, or they've got them in and outside of provider's office. 


And it's just important to remember that these assays can vary from place to place. These numbers probably do not come from a study you know they come from, they come from like a study of probably white males. 


And so, I think we see a lot of patients coming in and wanting like an actual lab value to improve. with exactly why they have a certain symptom. So taking out the brain assault. In addition, so we also want to talk about our testosterone over our lifetime. 


So you're probably keeping our production of testosterone in our 20s. And it's something that magically happens on your 12th month and not having period where that drop-off. This is a consistently dropping-off lab since our 12-story priority levels. 


And this one also remembers some of the other key layers that affect the phenotypical expression of our testosterone, sex hormone binding level, which takes up free testosterone in our serum, can also decrease the age as we make less estrogen and therefore less prophesied by the liver. 


And so now sex hormone binding level can, there's less sex hormone binding level so there's more free testosterone. So the phenotypical effect of that may be more obvious despite the fact that we're not necessarily gaining more testosterone. 


We'll put a reminder on all the different peripheral organs that can be affected by antigens. And this is also a little bit of a different side when we're setting up downstream intracellular mechanisms of a lot of transcription factors, gene expression. 


And that's just, again, important to remember that this has an effect on multiples of organs. We're gonna be through a bladder, brain, our heart muscle, the stomach, so we're gonna focus on the ulcer. 


And this is just a review of all our CTs that show the effect of testosterone in post-partum hormone, I'm not gonna go through it in detail. But we also wanna make sure that although the focus is on the ulcer-vitro and HSCD, we have to care for other outcomes and this to me just outsides how much of what research we need to prove that testosterone can potentially help. 


and learn about that at the backside of the detail. And this is the meta-monstice data that are valued into kind of a keep-good consensus guidelines that you're seeing here. So if you don't already have this paper available for resources, this is the payment that I'm downloading and I would definitely take time to go through it and read it, pretty much go through everything that I'm going to go through in the next couple of slides and it's really good to test, 


so this is a great paper too. And this is just a list of all the different societies that support this global statement. And this is just the size of the multi-s research exceptions and support for that, because that's a guideline that I just showed you. 


And then what I wanted to summarize, the important thing is that this is for the treatment of HSPD in post-ment complications, as these are the data right now, at least the most important. Most of the minute, obviously, showed no adverse side effects. 


They don't want to be concerned about cardiovascular disease, breast cancer, but they did not bear that out. We need a lot more data on the safety of long-term testosterone abuse. And I kind of want to talk about how important that is to be studied. 


But I guess another example of how supporting our allies in trans medicine has a halo effect in that everyone can benefit from studies that are done also on trans patients to see how they do on a tiredness of testosterone. 


So just a little plug to our allies here. And I want to go through some of the other stuff a little bit later in more detail. But again, this global statement, the summary for it is that we should be targeting levels in the pre-menopausal physiological concentration. 


There is no approved female product in the United States. So we have to basically take male formulations and very traditionally use them at a time of the dose, monitor our patients very carefully, and try to avoid any kind of compounded or unapproved formulations such as pebbles or injectables. 


Sorry, I should go for that now. But we need to do more research. So let's talk a little bit about, I keep thinking. So let's talk a little bit about the proper testing that we need to maintain female physiologic levels. 


And so we use one type of standard male dose of this 1% trans serum testosterone, which is approximately 300 micrograms a day. And when we see patients that may not respond to those typical levels that we're looking for, I think we could investigate if there are any type of HPG levels to see if although their levels are more well, is there not? 


of them free to stop wearing them, so that they can be free to wear them. Quick message, just because this is becoming really prevalent in the age of social media, pellets, compound to stop wearing eye injections, oral formation, these are not recommended. 


They're not regulated, they can get you to super physiologic levels and make things like acne and the hair loss is reversible, but who is keeping it clear readily? Not reversible, so it's really important that patients come in to talk about these alternative options that they use in their mind that we appropriately warn them and provide them information in the state of ways that they can also get desired effect from testosterone. 


Here's just a quick list of just the government approved therapies for testosterone for men. So this is just for a little bit of airless, it doesn't even include a write down dysfunction, so just to give you an idea of all their options. 


I want to mention quickly, Ann jumped them, which is FDA approved, I guess, a therapeutic administration approved product in Australia, and so they have a protein that can also apply to the skin training externally. 


So we have to basically copy whatever Australia did. But this is a typical surgical option that needs to be available on both the United States and Europe. In 2004, we had a bullet gel. It was in a development phase, but they found a placebo effect. 


It was so high that they did it. So that was that. So it just felt just stopped. And then actually Europe, it translated to that. And in 2006, it was voluntarily withdrawn. Even though it didn't have an improvement of section satisfying events, but they've also put a bit of increased risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease, which we just mentioned to somebody else. 


So I'm very glad that happened. I don't think it's clear that it's also true. Closing recommendations. So how are we going to do this in practice? So this is her patient, who he ruled out other causes, optimized on her HRC, still complaining about the need of, and it's a safe patient to take the candidate first after a disaster. 


So if any of these are the two packets, two more packets a month, we're going to use one type of dose. So you should be able to have, so you're going to use one type of dose, or one type of packet study, three to two per month, if that makes sense. 


And we strongly recommend that you go with the twos on the packet. Once you open the packet, that's kind of wasted. It's going to dry out and be a waste of application, especially because we don't try to do that. 


You can use this for range, if you want to help with administration, and you apply this. jump to your skin surface, the back of your thighs, the back of the calves, your above, if you want to avoid transference, which seems to wash your hair really well, don't just wipe it on a towel or something. 


It really needs like a hyperandromized cat or something. And basically we see six to eight weeks do you see an improvement after initiation of therapy, and men and women do feel that improvement is going to work after four weeks, including a reduction in distress with max, as we see around 12 weeks. 


And again, it's generally not covered by control insurance, but there's members of getting a little bit cheaper through the IRS, civilcare.com. This is just another example of all the different men's testosterone that are out there, and the two are the ones that you're going to want to use. 


This is, again, a different way to make the testosterone. off-label. The times that I have had to use a compound in pharmacy is either the patient didn't tolerate or touch it like your jaw was mixed in, or had a really hard time distributing it in the dose, and sometimes you compound in pharmacy so that you dress pumpkin, have these clip pens, and make it really easy for patients to get the medication out. 


So, if you start a patient now on a set disaster, I want to be able to repeat the levels of disaster on the previous six weeks, and if they're having any side effects, you want to make sure that when you decrease the dose, you're also re-checking your labs every couple weeks. 


So, for monitoring is clinical response, and assessing people for evidence of managing access, and decreasing the dose of those clinical symptoms are there. We do not use that value to diagnose HSD. Again, there's a lot of variation in people's androgen receptor receptivity. 


There are levels of SHBG, so we don't use it to diagnose this. But we may use it to ensure that they're not getting to super-derivative levels, and we're keeping them in the pre-ventopausal levels. Usually, I see clients that are not feeling anything, who can stop treatments, and if they are sending improvement, we'll continue it up to six to twelve months, and then go on a bit of a drug holiday, 


and see how they did after that. And remember, this should be in the context of doing all the things in the psychosocial model to improve their desire. I don't expect, I don't tell my patients not to expect this to just be like one medication wonder that's going to fix all of their desire problems in their relationship. 


I kind of mentioned this already about just checking SHBG, and you feel like you're using a lot of what it would like to get, and you're not getting any effect. Let's see what else. Let me see this. I didn't talk about this already. 


And the good point is not using this for diagnostic purposes. I want you to use this for checking first through the theological levels. And then, so in summary, others should be considerations. This compound environmental testosterone therapy, this is the pellet of what might be self-regalified providers who do not have the background that we do at community conferences and studying how to appropriately distribute to self-sustenance therapy. 


There's no FDA, there's no oversight on a lot of those different institutes or those distributed compound biopharmacies. When you do need to use the compound in pharmacy, however, you want to make sure that they're compliant with the purity and active pharmaceutical ingredients and part of the good thing, actually practice, to meet these industry standards and the long-winded way of saying, make sure your compound in pharmacy is being monitored and is following the guidelines. 


So again, not my first slide, but if you have to, or patients prefer that and want to meet them when they're out, that's the best practice. Systemic pages that associate with the significant improvement and lead to a sexual function at this time, more research is needed. 


Many amazing people coming in on cell events about a stop. And then these are the other ways that you can monitor testosterone. You've got them starting checking in with their animal exam, their public exam, they're evaluating for clitoral ventilate, yet they're probably having it much to the physiological levels of testosterone. 


Making sure they're getting their animal mammogram, asking them about animal bleeding, looking for signs of acne, and herstituting the hormonal hair growth, nail cards, having baldness, voice changes, clitoral ventilate, most of the time they'll tell you. 


But you also want to make sure you're checking lipid profiles, liver function tests, CTA head increasing the women who have adequate and super physiologic levels. We work with a provider who does gender improvement care, and they actually don't monitor a lot of these labs in their trans male population. 


But again, because it's not active for women, we'd love to make sure we're actually safe. We'll do more research again. This is for six months until there's a clear improvement, and make sure there's no other episodes going on. 


So the short answer is yes, we have, we do need long-term safety data. We know that everything comes out to help these long-term safety data. But multiple studies have shown no increase in cardiovascular disease or breast cancer. 


Again, genetic side effects can be present like acne and release hair growth, but it's generally reversible. It's really patients who are on the unregulated pallets and things like that, but we see fewer breast cancer. 


We see them throw back later, voice healing. There may be pieces that, there may be, there's definitely been an effect at very high levels. on other profiles, you can see the decrease in your HDL, but again, we're monitoring that very closely. 


We're at Sydney and I can see data, so there's multiple randomized trials that looked at this, and it also has shown help with increasing status factors, sexual arrests, frequency, desire, acting, hair growth, and then being the most common, oh my god, 10 seconds, which is, I'm not gonna do the greatest side effects, just keep going to make sure. 


There are studies that you can look up on your own and also still have these slides. Why do we like the transdermal group? It will have the most limited control effect as opposed to injectable, probably as oral formulation, so please avoid those at all costs. 


Again, we talked about the intent of the dose. Okay, I wanted to. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, our other speakers go to this session, the aircraft here. All right, that was a lot. 


That's why the fire hose situation begins. Because we were talking about treatment, it's just a ton of new information. And what you do take home on a couple of pieces, even if it's just one initial treatment, if you're going to start prescribing on Monday, if you get back to work, look up that treatment again before you start your clinic. 


Go through that rule. The supplement is our current best resource when it comes to starting prescribing testosterone. There's always been things you don't have to do, or at least if you're going to be in a discussion with someone, you get to the senior faculty level. 


You've got your pre-mul-tee, or you've got anybody else that has a little bit of excitement. You're going to get some different opinions on how to prescribe this thing to anyone else's way. But I really need to add that level. 


So I'm very comfortable saying it. I'm quite conservative when it comes to not that I prescribe testosterone all the time for systemic use, but just being really evidence-based in terms of following guidelines, especially if you're in an institution that requires you to really be very close to your guidelines. 


So I empower you all to go out and write a description for testosterone next week. You can do it. You have the support of evidence on your side. And this is also there as a person as well. We're going to do some Q&A. 


So please come up to the microphone if you have questions, and we'll let our faculty respond. And then if you need to get up and check your legs, that's totally fine. We're going to be serving coffee in another couple of minutes, I think. 


But we will start our next session right over behind us. That's what we've got. So, with regards to questions... Hi, everyone! Thank you guys so much for your fabulous talks. My question actually is about the private testosterone. 


So I totally agree with you. My first time is FDA approved, first time's I've practiced about 20 minutes while I'm here in the area. And Southern pharmacists do not like women picking up testosterone prescriptions from the pharmacy. 


So it's a really big barrier for our patients to go out of their way or even spend, you know, 100 dollars of cash out of their pocket to get a lot of stigma at the medical counter. So do you have any recommendations on how to serve in medsana or how to use messaging for our pharmacy colleagues? 


That's a great question. Unfortunately, there's a lot of things and you know right now that pharmacy so that you may be using. I think we don't have access. But I would say that if, If you're going to be prescribing in the same area or working with the same groups of people often, you know, best practice would be to use that. 


You try to educate other pharmacy partners as much as you can, provide the evidence because we have it. And educate them just like any other drug they got was not safe for a patient of mine. And if that's too cumbersome and it doesn't work, I would use no pharmacy. 


Can I? I have no promises here. I don't know. I don't know what you might say or what. And this is what I do. I print out the NAMS state law and the Law Society statement on this classroom. For HSD, post-menopausal women, I give that opportunity to the person I highlighted. 


And then it's all going to call me if there's any comments. So we not originally moved that, approached me in the fall for this last year. Who had created an entire advocacy project and I say it's my right. 


And it was her and a few other clinicians who got together. They created a letter that they took to all of the local pharmacies. Got it escalated to leadership in some of the bigger CES, whatever, like management. 


And they were able to get testosterone. Not only did they get the pharmacies to actually dispense it without drama, but they also got them to dispense smaller amounts at a time, so that people did not have to shell out over $100 for a 10-month supply. 


Not even the leader was going to help them. Because what happens is they'll still have to pay that $100 to pay with the good RIT coupon, but give you less. If you prescribe it a little bit at a time. 


So they advocated for this to be an adequate cost for the amount that they were actually giving out. So this is a time for a global action. If you see a problem with your humidity, I implore you to advance ever with your humidity to work on that at a local level. 


So that's where we actually have a lot of power. Next question. Somebody heard the suggestion from you, yes. So it was basically written out, right, the consensus document. Correct. T4HFC, give it to your patients if you can highlight it with the department. 


Right, yes, and then she wrote her information on any case of pharmacists, wanted to contact her with questions. Thank you for having the line up. Next question. Hello, Grillion Williams. Thank you for everything. 


I have a question, kind of spring-forwarding off the 2024 release, there's some paper about testosterone and its effect on nine different cognitive things. So the way you've been talking about libido and mood and all of these different things affecting receptors all over bodies and particularly in our brain. 


I'm wondering if any of you were working on or if you have practice curls or if you've been prescribing with an SSRI, while you ramp up the testosterone for any anecdotal evidence that you think that could be a way for us to modify the prescriptions that were used to testosterone as an adjunct in order to bring people up to SSRI when that's the risk and when that's the goal. 


So actually, I'm presenting a poster for Dr. Newsom and I think it's on Saturday, and it's actually about the seed prescribing. So she is a gem, and yes, some of that poster's up. So you're a gem too, so that's good. 


I have a question about patient anti-scare. I kind of took over, and it's about testosterone and estrogen. Her, she's on double the normal dose of testosterone and estrogen isle, tyringosurmaline, and her levels are still in the post-emotional brain, and she's still symptomatic. 


So how do you manage people that are not absorbing transdermaline? That's pretty tough. I mean, you can definitely look at the therasect hormone by the globular levels to see if that's elevated still. 


I feel like with that specific patient, again, we don't want to use labs to determine whether or not somebody's clinical symptoms are diagnosed, I guess, is what I would say. So you can optimize her, in terms of what we know right now is that we use her transdermal testosterone, making sure that it's for all the other reasons that she may not be getting her desired effect, because I often tell patients, 


if you come in with negative labs that say you don't have something, but you have clinical symptoms, I'm not going to treat the lab, I'm going to treat you as a person. So you could, with shared decision-making, try to increase your testosterone, but I would want serious buy-in as she's looking into all the other factors that are probably contributing to. 


for a little desire before I would really recommend that. And then in terms of also just making sure you optimize the longer of medical problems and also show back time, like your host, his astronaut roles, the chronic medical condition. 


Well, I also want to say just also, I don't chase labs either, but consider the formulation that you're using. So I like to use the test of gel that we prescribe for males, and I've talked to a couple of pharmacists that say to stop spreading actually in gel formulations and this will work a little bit better. 


So again, confirm with them how they're using it. Are they using it now? Are they putting it on properly? And then in terms of the estrogen not reaching proper levels, again, I'm not a lab chaser, but again, maybe change it to formulations. 


Maybe you can do them to a gel packet, or maybe they wear a patch and they still need a little bit of the gel. So again, maybe a little bit of kind of help shitting out. outside of completely open space, but really trying to alter the optimal. 


Yeah, I think switching formulations is really important, because some people do have a harder time absorbing, different, like a patch versus a gel versus a feeding. This is a plug for the form of a horse. 


Six hours on menopause, so please register, because you're gonna have the world experts talking about this stuff. Why are we still advocating to give someone a drug holiday, because we don't do that to men? 


What we talked about, I'm sorry, I didn't hear you say that. Why are we still advocating, maybe it's just we just don't have the research yet, but where do we advocate to give women a drug holiday and testosterone, because we don't do that to men? 


I know you were just really advocating. It's, it seems like at the 6 to 12 point point point. Yes, you don't have to have a drug holiday. I know some of my friends probably don't have evidence, like even like the, how often we're taking lab is very different than the male. 


How often we're checking labs, and I have to tell you the main evidence, I just wanted to, I want to just talk about the evidence of why we take the markets off, because we're practicing defensive medicine, because we're doing everything off labels, and all of us are trying to protect our licenses, while also providing good care, so that's probably where a lot of the like hesitation or difference in the ascension comes from, 


not from the defense base essence. Also keep in mind, this is a global consensus, so to get the glow to be on anything is gonna require probably some concessions, and I think that the lab monitoring, and also the drug holiday idea, was from the more conservative point of really just wanting to be very careful and cautious, until we have our long-term staff, but I do appreciate the comment. 


Hi, I'm a pharmacist from Canada, Quebec. Second issue, observation, I've been getting back at university, something sensual about. So, I have a question. Who should the patient, we know it's a multidisciplinary. 


approach, we can see a lot of people. So who should the patient be seeking that we suspect has hypo, I'm sorry, hypoactive sexual disorder that was dismissed by her oncologist, that was ignored by the psychiatrist. 


And with whom the family doctor says, we can't give Addie because you're distressed, you're depressed and it's contraindicated if you have depression. Look, I'm just, what I want to show is that thank God for a multidisciplinary approach and the patient is very confused. 


So how do we navigate that when we go back home and we see something, but it's out of our scope and we don't know how to refer, like if I'm in Canada, we don't have the gym that you have here. So I think what's really important is to get out there, start meeting other people. 


colleagues. That's kind of the thing I tell my patients. If they feel like they're not being seen or they're not being heard and they know something is deep inside them, that is a problem. It's kind of like being fired. 


And I know that that's, in some places, really tough. But that's where we have the swish, we have the swish fellows, we have a listserv, we have the ASET, the narrative, have the sex therapist, and the nurse therapist. 


And I know it sounds a little bit harsh, but yes, it's absolutely time to find a provider that is working to listen. So I think that's great. And I thank you and the faculty at the University Center for what I'm going to do, maybe I'll be here one day speaking and I love this swish. 


I'll give it a chance to. Thank you. Good morning. I have a comment and another question. I do like coaching with my patients, my new testosterone patients, because they may become in trouble at the pharmacy. 


They also may become in trouble with their BCP. For example, you know, the BCP says they may be in trouble with their BCP. You will gain weight if you get testosterone. So I kind of coach my patients to a whole, you know, like, sex mom in the room. 


And so they can avoid those people that may do this treatment for them. So keep that in mind. that are there for HSPP, they can find modifiable or lifestyle problems that you want to address first, and they say, what is your, give me a pill, give me a treatment, that's all they want, and they won't address the modifiable factors. 


How do you handle that question? I didn't know how I handled those things, there is someone who comes in with PCOS and they're, you know, police, and, you know, they just want to get pregnant and not gonna deny them, like, a form in, or something like that, because they haven't done all the other modifiable risk factors, or addressed all the other modifiable risk factors. 


I think it comes down to meeting a patient where they're at, and when you get that buy-in from them, that you actually care about what's important to them. And if you felt that relationship over time, I find that I can get this simple here to address those other things, especially if you do describe it and it didn't fix their entire model completely. 


They come back and go, that didn't work. I'm like, all right, let's take a step back and talk again about everything that we do. So I think it will just come down to the decision-making relationship and I want to buy a statement because you don't buy into the whole model again because I just learned about this the last five to 10 years. 


So, you know, patience to be able to take a PhD. I think that for the race that came in 12, it was incredibly important and for me, I heard maybe the data collection and the project that was possible to do the SEI so that it is not just like, you're not listening to me or I think it's that way. 


I'm not trying to make it bad but the project really can, so they can try it and it's a group of great. But let's open the program up. Thank you. If people want to hand it up and go out to get coffee, there is coffee available right now, but we'll just take questions. 


Thank you. A couple of questions. Thank you for questions. I've been a starman and a dancer in front of me for several years and I just learned that the packaging service has not consumed a great group while you're on it. 


I told the patient, did you just get through to a set day like, what if it works like having a future? Any knowledge on this? The other one is with the test test from, the mission statement says, it's not sure if it's able to help you in the face but also if it doesn't have an effect on the face. 


So, I've found the patient in my capital, I think it's very good, but otherwise, I'm very low for the best of the risk that we can do as a teacher in the community if any of you have a problem with that. 


So, yes, I kind of just learned that recently on the dance culture service again in my patient and education as well with it. And then, I often, like again, I'm not this huge lab chaser, but I go get a good series of labs on my children and so I teach a lot of students because when we look at our consensus statement, we don't really have a number of where testosterone should be, we don't really have a whole lot of data on it and I have more children who are just sweating for themselves. 


And just to kind of make a slight... I think it's a little bit different insurance based models and cash-based models, I think it's a whole other recent discussion about the conditions on the national level. 


I don't have a lot on my thumbs. And so that's kind of my own stat of my practice. It's just a way to ensure that I can help as we get to the question. I think it's such a transparency with your patient and it's open to the heart and it's inter-vaporative drive and the advocate for themselves. 


So, you know, if this patient knows that they don't have good effect from their testosterone until they're above the level of 75 on their labs, like then we know, okay, so that's where you are most happy. 


So I think there's ways to go that's quite a bit niche and it doesn't have to feel like this in a chat box. So I think which it often does, but I think there is some value in actually looking at it. We're gonna take one more question and then we'll try to do things like that as well. 


Thank you so much for doing this. First of all, thank you so much. I'm an OBGYN who did it and I'm going to have to remain as a course of residency like 10 years out. So it's tenderly measured and I'm a paper liberal and I'm trying to tell my patient I've got a chief of test risk. 


How much of this I'm going to take in this test? It's like a test shirt, but like, you know, the whole thing I just said. How much of this testosterone, the testosterone tube do you actually take? I have patients who are hyper-liberal and I'm also very liberal. 


I go for four months, but I can't say for my own, but you tell them to do. And how do you write down the restrictions? Like, is it as directed and then how much do you take and then do you really write down the content of it too? 


Yeah, I think they have some. I mean, this is a way to ask if you have a full box and you can get a card and then you can do even brought out the syringe and do it like that. Like, for example, really, if you find out where it is, that's when I sometimes go to the club. 


Okay, it comes down to like, what do you have in the mouth of general over a day? Okay. Through to the syringe. Okay. And then we say four drops, two on each side of the eye, if you're reading drops. 


And that's eight, that's the nervous method. And then five, three percent, two to two. All right, thank you so much. Everybody get some coffee, use that row. 
