

I'm Andrew DeWitt, and I'm ready for lunch, and it's been a lot of intervention. Quick announcement before we start. There is a different Wi-Fi. Some of these slides are downloading. That might happen. 


The issue is about the background and the password. So there are some slides that are not up yet, but the ones that are have been working. So hopefully that's all the issues. All right. Now I'll talk about the public tour piece of it. 


So I have to give this lecture. Again, women in this context, the research focuses on her, but everybody has a public floor, despite their significance. So a few things out of this lecture. After, or at the end of this lecture, I'll go ahead and call the floor one-on-one in just two minutes. 


So hopefully by the end, you will know what public floor discussion is. And can I know if I can arrange or sometimes it might be someone who has. Also, everyone asks what happens in the most closed door. 


So I will leave it if you have an idea of what a public floor key looks like, kind of from start to finish, in an evaluation, an assumption, or what it should look like. And to be able to at least start to be required. 


If you are making your research a lot, so if you are already using public floor PTs, if you're a public provider, but if not, hopefully this gives you some tools as to what you can do and how to start facilitating that process. 


And then in these slides, there are some resources, data models, things like that that you'll find in these, in these slides. So it is public floor discussion. Essentially, it is anything outside of the normal functioning of the public floor muscles. 


And so it might present in a wide variety of symptoms, including your allergic complaints, your urgency, frequency, bowel complaints, constipation, the contents. sexual dysfunction, arousal pain, pain penetration, but also things that are not necessarily related to those functions, like altered pressure management, low pain issue, or the public pressure function can come along with different diagnosis that we'll see in the end of the slides coming up, 


but it might just be altered pressure management, or prolapse symptoms, or public pain, which is what we're here discussing. The problems, just like we all probably have, there's a huge knowledge gap in understanding. 


We heard from the advocates earlier this morning that there is help for these issues. They are treatable, they are identifiable, but getting people to really understand what this is and what it's not, and how do we deal with things, and how do we identify and who to send to, is it our home, so if you want to name it. 


Accessibility, and it's coverage again, this is what we're here to talk about when we are over and over again. Hopefully, more and more people coming in. these conferences will help build those gaps. 


But also, the normalization of these functions. Yeah, you're leading here, that's a little more cool. So we have to start to recognize that these are symptoms and they may not always cause distress, but that doesn't mean that there isn't treatment and they're not normal, just because they're wrong. 


When you think about how to afford this function, we can put it in black and white, though it is almost never black and white, but we think about these low and tough disorders compared to high tone disorders. 


When we talk about sexual dysfunction and in particular pain, we kind of want these high tone disorders. We are trying to get away from using high tone. That's also a whole thing, but essentially, we're talking about tight muscles, not black tissue, where we are talking about black and low tone. 


However, a lot of times, these are often fixed. Maybe the symptoms are that they're not strong muscles, but basically because they're tight versus very black. So muscles like to work at a very specific position, usually at mid range, so that if they're overstretched or they're too tight, they do not function like they should be. 


So these also kind of take different approaches. And you might have to strategize with where do I start? Because we do need to strengthen you, but we also have to ensure that your request to learn to be too tight, and we're not exacerbating your pain to fix your very nice contents. 


So this is really pelvic floor dysfunction. As Sarah mentioned earlier, these conditions or pelvic floor dysfunction can overlap with pretty much every diagnosis you can think of. The question is, again, where do we start? 


And is this a cause of something bigger going on? Because of course, we touch the top. So our arm pulls away. If we have a stupider, our muscles are going to get tight. So it's kind of about planning and working with our swag and splinter team members and maybe getting to the young messages and then doing a job before we succeed. 


And so we have to really think about that. We don't know always what came first and so some people can do really well starting with PT and then getting referred to a specialist. Other people really need to get to that specialist before they can commemorate physical therapy. 


So again, cause or effect, but it's likely involved. But if you have no idea, some of them can do a portfolio PT and they can do a part of an exam and for the muscles, then you may have enough time to do because you're addressing a lot of other issues as well. 


Sexual public health flexing. We also have to remember that there are different conditions that this is not an exclusive list and it's not just in adolescence, but these are some of the more common things you might see somebody give. 


that's getting their adolescence or going to age. Whereas we fit into our period of time, period of time, and then period of menopause and menopause. And so you may get somebody that's period of menopausal or menopausal, but you can't forget about their whole life. 


That's all of these things have probably not been addressed. And we still have a problem now. Think about 30, 40, 50 years ago, these things are still probably impacting their care and there's not enough, or vice versa, which indicates about when they become period of menopausal. 


They know that I can come back to you at this age and I can also get help for things that may develop later in life. I'm gonna introduce the framework that was originally developed for PETA and GEE, because this is not my framework. 


And so if I get a patient because we have direct access, I'm focusing on region two, which is a public tour, but I'm also considering what about region one? How do you have a period of exam with a provider who can do all of the testing and how does that better work out because your global pain might lead you to some muscular component, but also be it that there's adhesions that could be present or there are other things other than the spine. 


So the way that I'm looking at this as a physical therapist is I'm working on this, but what else is involved and who is gonna be able to help give you the best results for your or whatever condition or symptoms you're having? 


What is a public tour? It is a group of muscles, fascia, ligaments that is there to support our downward organs. It helps with pressure management, like I said, breathing and interacts with the diaphragm. 


It's really the foundation of our body. And so it is very important and lots of things that can impact it. And I really wanna point out that. really the goal is optimize the function of the pelvic floor muscles. 


It really is never just low tongue, high tongue. It's about what they're presenting, but that's why our exam is really important as a psychotherapist because we want to provide optimal pelvic floor functioning. 


So know that you're going to give that just for you to do cables is probably not sufficient and that's probably why you have some symptoms or it's not the whole picture because these muscles do not work in isolation. 


So we work on an impairment based model, so you may have a diagnosis of endometriosis or ulcerative or dysuria. But what am I looking at and what is my PT diagnosis? You have core motor control, there's some weakness here and I'm working at that level, especially for our contact patients. 


I If I were to take things back to the normal functioning, I should see changes in x, y, z settings. So we really take a very broad history of our disability exams. And then, again, patient goals are important. 


And not just what I kind of care is really going to be directed on. I may have different goals than that patient does. And I may educate them about the importance of those goals. But I really want to address what they're coming into need with, either alone in PT or with my no-titus, that I don't care about. 


Some of this is just for reference. And I think it's good to kind of break things down. But again, these muscles work as a unit. So we talked about the superficial layer, which includes this first layer of what we term the neurotypical triangle of muscles. 


In general, it's about urinary and sexual functioning. And in terms of the somehow that constipation, the second layer of the air is broken down. And that's keeping things in place where they're supposed to be. 


So this is our superficial group. If you're with Amazon, of course, we calculated these muscles. Again, if you don't have to know exact names, but generally speaking, please assess both the superficial and the no-titus. 


The deeper muscles, again, more supported. You're going to find when you palpate, especially the operator. Lots of people were like, oh my gosh, I hope you got triggered. But that can present, it's not technically a public floor muscle. 


It functions very closely with the public floor muscles. And it is very called the public floor dysfunction. But urinary urgency and frequency, I think it was a lot of my long moments yesterday of, oh wow, yes, will we address that? 


Or I think that it reproduced their symptoms. And I do want to point out, too, that your patient that's coming in not with pain, but maybe something like urinary urgency, frequency, and non-pain symptom, when you palpate their muscles, they may have generous pain if that is never wrong. 


So if we start out, I'm going to have the patient fill out their intake forms, but I'm also going to talk to them about their story. I want to hear it from them. I have people fill out their life story, and then I have people that put one, two letters in each box. 


So I really want to understand what's happening. I'm going to educate them about what my exam is going to look like. We look at both the external structures and internal. This might not happen in day one, but these are all the things I want to look at. 


Diaphragm, connective tissue mobility. We're going to do our board exam, and so they took us on hands in here. You can do this too, and I hope you're already arguing it, and if not, you have permission to start doing this. 


We're doing our huge exam. We're looking at the bulk of, again, how many gynecologists do not look at the bulk, but I just go straight to your survey and all the other organs inside. So we are looking at this, and we do use it. 


here as well. I have a little here that has a long self-easter here, which is helpful to do, so that's another idea. And then afterwards, we're going to talk about our findings and why we need to be relevant in our symptoms. 


We need to have both of their symptoms, and then we're going to talk to them about some exercises. So this one is a good one for me and probably for the relaxation. Again, go back to that campaign here, my base model. 


We need a plot to optimize the function of the pelvic floor muscles. And no, it's okay if you do a pelvic floor contraction. It's not going to kill you. But if you don't take muscles, please go to your PTC and also learn how to return to that baseline. 


Sometimes there's really simple strategies to do that. Other times, it takes a little bit more cueing different tools to actually help reduce that. Your muscles are turning on all throughout the day, and so what we don't want is you doing a hundred cables a day, and that's not really the right thing, but it is okay if your pelvic floor muscles contract. 


But I want to just take the fear out of that. But when it comes to treatment, there's another PTO lecture later today at the PPM about symposium, and so it's what's in your toolbox. There's evidence, especially for pain, painful therapy, and I do heavily believe that you really need to do manual therapy when it comes to pain. 


But you can also do less things like, via feedback, dilators, and I'll talk a little bit about that, because dilators are important in how you give up to your patients. But again, lots of different ways to treat these relaxation exercises, mindfulness, and again, both of this therapy are very important. 


or obese urologist sex time providers. So let's take this common scenario. And I've made this before, I've heard our wonderful patient advocate, but let's plug it in first, right? Or you can make me think of a patient because it's so common, right? 


You have this distressed couple. I am not enjoying sex. It's not that I don't look like her. We have a great relationship. Otherwise, I am frustrated. Big little provider. And I don't think I'm for one time. 


I've talked about the wine scenario, but I think last year, it was like five different ventures of this. And if it's your idea, it is some of your stuff. Just have a glass of wine, just relax, you'll be fine. 


That is frustrating, as you've heard. So what if, what if we could talk to our patients, same scenario, but they find someone like yourself, and I'm gonna say that, now all of it to you. And it's, let's say you start with some natural estrogen, and let us send you to... 


to the spelling floor in East Yangon, I get wonderful results, we work together all the time. You have evidence of tight muscles, let's try this. Okay, I'm gonna do that. How much distress is not going to be caused by this approach? 


It's simple, it's using simple language to help somebody feel like there is hope, there is some treatment available to be able to help their symptoms and reach their goals. Language matters, saying let's try some physical therapy or you can try this and help, they're not gonna go. 


They want, if they trust you now that you've been giving them solutions, hey, go to this PT, I work with her all the time, with him all the time, and I get great results that can help discuss your face and we can work together to find solutions for you. 


So that language matters. When it comes to dilators, I'm just gonna make a really short stint on this, is please send them, if you are recommending, to the PT to help work through them and if they have compromised physical issues, treat that first before inserting a gatherer because like Caitlin said, it's gonna cause more stress. 


Somebody against this coach, and people ask me this, if I put in the ones that we use, if that is helpful for you when referring, but all you need to do is evaluate the treat. Reading your notes and your evaluation is super helpful, but sometimes insurances, if you write like one kind of a week or 60, sometimes insurance, you have to do that, but the PT might have a different plan, so even on the treat, 


it's perfect. All the public PTs are in it. So I think one of the best ways you can find PTs is talk to the PTs here, and each year there's more and more. There's some other resources here, encourage more local PTs if they're interested and don't doubt these, bring back the information to the fall course because the more that PTs can come and learn all of this, the more they can come with their patients and it just creates this great effect of the movement. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
