

Can I see a show of hands for our babies? This is the first time you're ever hearing this? Oh my gosh, amazing. So, you may feel a little bit overwhelmed right now, and that's okay. We really tried to make this course so that you would help walk away things that you think you want to learn. 


So, HSPD is such a great way to kind of start with this. So, I'm gonna, without further ado, I'm gonna take it over and have Dr. Sigmund have a very tight face, so I try to stay on time. So, hopefully Dr. 


McElhenney will have it full time. She needs some of the slides for my first slides, pretty quickly, because you guys have already heard it, but I'd like to repeat it again, so you can go. I'm Dr. Heather McWhale, I'm the owner of the Show Center in your local event, and I'm in your conference here, and I'm so honored to be here with all of you. 


All right, so my morning objectives for you is we're gonna define HSPD and some of the impact. We're gonna describe and compare the FDA-approved treatments for HSPD, we're gonna look at the alternative and investigational treatments, and then we're gonna apply it to evidence-based patient-centered decision-making. 


The other thing that I wanted to add is that Dr. Kraft talked about having all the different processes of care. When you all look in your syllabus, they're actually under there, under added materials, so you can have all of those available to you. 


So, you've already heard what the definition is. There's kind of a lot of overlap, but I think the most important takeaway with HSPD is that you understand that it's been there for longer than six months, and it's actually distressing for your patient. 


So, if you have a patient that comes in and says, yeah, maybe I have some low libido, but it's not bothersome, that technically my definition is not HSPD. It needs to be bothersome, it needs to cause distress for your patient, and it needs to be here longer than six months. 


So, when we look at this precise study, it is an older study, but it was kind of a bankrupt study, and it's really haunted, and it's really kind of that important study. which really kind of tries to decipher out between what is the cause of their symptoms and is it bothersome and doesn't lead to a diagnosis that kind of potentiates in pharmaceutical intervention. 


So you've heard many of us talk about the secret of sexual desire. For things that you can do that are quick and modifiable, especially for our insurance-based people, is that I know in an insurance-based model, you can run for 15 minutes to see your patients. 


So working with your admin staff, maybe getting, if you know that you're seeing a lot of women with libido issues, put it on your intake form. This is a really quick and easy thing that patients can fill out before they come in. 


So when you walk in the door, you're able to already assess if they're having things that they need to be talking about. So again, really important. You've heard us all refer to this process. Here, it's been presented to you multiple times through this morning. 


It's also here. and it's going to take you down a step-by-step process and how we do this might suggest laminating it, keeping it at your desk drawer, or right back on your desk. So as we mentioned, there are numerous biochemical components that really kind of go into this in our bodies, and they act on different parts of our brain and in different parts of the central nervous system, and they can cause this excitation, 


but they can also lead to this inhibited sexual response. And you can see that there are some overlap with them, and again, the medications and things that we talked about really interplay with this. 


So this is really a neurobiological thing that is going on in our body. HSCD is a result of the mid-talence of brain hormones and brain neurotransmitters. So I hate when they say it's all in our head, but technically it kind of is all in our head. 


It's a brain thing. But by the time you leave for the day, hopefully you'll start to ask that, and you explain it to your patients that it is in our head, but it's not really in the way that they've been traumatized during that. 


They'll have a better understanding about the embeds in our biochemical intelligence. So you've heard us talk about this sexual tipping scale, and you can kind of see here that there are things that really excite in our brains and things that cause a lot of inhibition. 


Mental health factors, physical factors, lots of different things in our day-to-day life that really kind of affects a lot of this. It's kind of this really unique combination. So when dopamine and oxytocin are primarily involved with sectional arousal, this is also, you will see that it is the dopamine, anti- oxytocin, and then the lancorps, and then the norepinephrine also leads to attention and desire. 


And you're going to hear kind of more about this throughout this whole entire weekend on all the different things with this. So in terms of what causes that inhibition, serotonin is believed to be a a component of sexual activity. 


Opioids are going to be more into those sexual rewards. And then you have the adenoids, which lead to the sedation and then the prolactin with the sexual desire. So we're going to talk about mostly I was going to go through those slides relatively quickly, really focusing in on the FDA-approved options. 


So we have two. We have multiple for them, probably 26 or more Can you tell us a slide that you'll probably see throughout this weekend that pops up all of the things that we have for men and for PD? 


We have two for videos. Can I see a show of hands of anyone who actually has used them in their practice? Okay, awesome, awesome. So this may be a little bit of new information for some of you, but there, again, there's two of them that are there. 


So let's get into, let me answer in. So let me answer in. which was FDA approved in 2015. It's a MIGS postsynaptic 5-HT1 agonist and a 5-HT2 antagonist. So if we lay concerns basically, the way I understand this so that it makes more sense, especially for our babies, is in less agonistic activity as well as agonistic activity in our brains. 


And as we put a lot of these medications, the exact mechanism really is not known and we do know that it has some activity at the dopamine receptors as well as just region-specific relations in dopamine and norepinephrine. 


And what that does is it offsets this inhibitory serotonergic activity and it results in this increase in desire and an increase in sexual thoughts. And as I mentioned, serotonin, which we saw on our sexual tipping scales, that's really believed to be involved in kind of a sexual satiety. 


So just kind of thinking about that, we'll talk a little bit about SSRIs and we'll first talk about other meds that really interact with sexual function. And so a lot of times I find that these medications can also work well as a balancing act. 


So when we look at what's going on, you can see in this diagram, you have these little humidity green in the receptors that are there and they work on the central nervous system. And anything that acts on the central nervous system can have really good effects and it can also have really bad effects. 


So we're gonna talk about some of the side effects here in just a little bit, but it's believed that the activity of the 5-HT1A agonist or the anti- or the agonistic activity in the 5-HT1A, that's a lot of information, could have these really pro-sexual effects. 


And the anti-antistic activity in the 5-HT2A can have pro-sexual effects as well. So again, it's this working of the anti-antistic activity. that you see going on here. So when we look at the clinical effects of it, we were talking earlier, even other people talk about the pre-sexual desire, the MSFI, the female sexual function index, and you saw a lot of my clinics, most people who work in sexual medicine have heard about these six different domains, 


and it really helps us kind of go through and figure out what was going on. So one of the things also with the answer that I like to point out is it actually was approved to pre-menopausal women. It does not mean, though, because it is only for pre-menopausal women that we don't often use it off label for pre-menopausal patients as well. 


They actually have the data on pre-menopausal women, but when you bring a drug forward through day pharma, FDA, all those things, where their hands are really tight, so they figure the best way to get this out there, and as difficult as this drug was to get out there, they put it through for pre-menopausal women. 


So, as we mentioned throughout this, Of course, this is not for women that are having necessarily partner issues or pain. This is that the patient that walks into the office and says, you know, I love my partner, I'm just not really got into having intimacy, and it actually is really impacting my relationship, it's causing stress, and it's making a distress, and it's impacting my relationship. 


These are the patients that we really want to be focusing on with potentially insane sedications. So I'm going to go over a little bit of just kind of what we saw in the trials with it. So we have three studies that were done on this. 


They were named after little flowers, and it was used in pre-menopausal women who acquired generalized HSE. So they used to have a desire, they no longer have it. It's been greater than six months, and it's mostly been in Caucasian women. 


And so, again, that's a little bit down where some of the studies are why we need to look at it across multiple specter, across multiple beyond just Caucasians, and it really was kind of focused in cisgender women. 


So, again, there's so much work to be done, and sexual health is kind of your thing. We need so much research. I always say there's a lot of research maybe in other areas, but if this is something you're passionate about, there's so much work that needs to be done. 


So we can just roll up our sleeves and get kind of started on that. So what we see in these studies is the mean age was 36. The duration of agency for these patients was about five years, and women in clinical trials had to be in an August heterosexual relationship for about 11 years. 


So, again, we kind of see a little bit of a pause in the study. So what we looked at is in the 30 to 24 week pivotal trials involving about 2,300 pre-menopausal women. In the first and second studies, you saw that they used something that was involved in an e-diography, and they actually eliminated it in the third study. 


Which I think is interesting and kind of significant because basically what it did was it asked them to outline the number of sexually satisfying events that they deemed more appropriate or valid in order to measure the meat of the video. 


And in a lot of ways, this was really difficult and it was almost unintentional. So for that, for those who work in microbiology practice, for example, you can see things like erectile dysfunction, premature ejaculation. 


Those are really a lot more easier and more identifiable because you can actually see that phenomenon formation and explain them to you better. Whereas when we think about HSCB from a female perspective and for these days it's kind of a brain thing that's going on, we're talking about mood, we're talking about desire. 


And so it's really difficult to kind of measure that. And so that's why we have so much difficulty with getting drugs free of birth with us. So with regard to the eat diary, we found in these studies, it was not the best way that represented an improvement over placebo. 


So again, another limitation in this around women's health and women's health care. So when we're looking at clinical trials, well, the answer in over placebo was regarded to satisfy sexual events. It was an improvement from the placebo to low cancer. 


However, it's really difficult to represent numerically the improvement in the quality of the experience in the sex, bisexual events as it were, because it's really hard to clinically define HSCD since it's more of a brain phenomenon. 


It's not going to be quite as easy as maybe pain and things of that nature. So when we look at this graph, it uses the FSFI and desired domain, and you actually can see that there was an improvement. 


We're looking at study three specifically because the p-value is noted in the studies in one and two, but you can see that there was a statistically significant improvement over the placebo in study three in the FSFI. 


And then in this one, you can see here in the FSFI, there was a reduction in distress versus placebo, and the same thing was also statistically significant in the third study. So let's talk a little bit about just these adverse reactions that we tend to see that happen. 


Anything that acts on that central nervous system, as we mentioned, is going to cause side effects. So dizziness, somnion, tnage, or fatigue, and somnion, and trying out all the things that you could possibly think of, it metallists them on there. 


And so oftentimes if you're thinking, oh my gosh, Naja, how am I going to get nauseated, and I'm supposed to be intimate with my partner, and how is this going to work? So a lot of this really realistically is setting these expectations for your patients. 


A lot of times I'll tell them, and we'll talk about this a little bit more when we get to the biodeceive part of it, or for adenotide, is that... how to try it first, don't plan on getting into it, and just kind of see how your body works with it. 


The majority of these adverse reactions began within the first 14 days of treatment. Once they kind of minimized the side effects within, the patients did vary. Well, the discontinuation rate because of adverse reactions was about 13% per planarin versus the 6% for placebo. 


So nausea definitely is a little bit higher than that. So just make sure that we are just aware of it. I don't know if you all remember, our movies probably don't, but we actually couldn't prescribe this medication back in the past without alcohol. 


So if you drank alcohol, you couldn't take it. So that's actually gone away. They did a huge study around alcohol with this medication, but now we just tell our patients if you have something to drink, I usually recommend taking it the way I'm starting in the evening, but if you have something to drink that night or it's within two hours of taking your place, just don't take it. 


that night, and so that is a whole lot better than this. Most women have been told for so long, just go ahead and have some wine, everything will be fine, it's all in your head, everything's good, and then you're going to have to tell them, here's a bill to take to help your desire to guess what you can't have any drinks. 


So just kind of, it's very warm to hit all those things, so again, just tell them, don't drink alcohol right before. All right, so let's get into a little bit of our Atlanta tie. What this is, is it's a melanocortin, and it is a cyclical sedimentary acid melanocortin receptor agonist. 


It has a high affinity for a tight form of melanocortin receptor. It was developed actually as an intranasal formulation initially, but now it's in a subcutaneous administration, so that includes tolerability for both patients. 


It's on demand, so it's a little bit different than what is going to be, what we just talked about with the phlebasin. So you take it kind of as needed, and right before intimacy, a lot of my patients, and I'll be curious what other people have heard as well too, I usually say about an hour before, but I have had patients tell me that sometimes they can take eight to twelve hours before they get their phlebasin. 


So again, this comes down to patients and giving really good education, like, hey, you may not want to take this and plan to have it intimacy an hour later, see how it works on your body. Does it take you eight hours to get a fix for this medication? 


Do you feel so nauseated that you want to grow up in the last thing that you're going to think about is having intimacy with your partner? Okay, but that's where it comes down to being really good in your discussion with your patients when they come in about these medications, and making just realistic moves for them, and reassuring them that it's normal, and better while you will get used to it. 


So when we talk about laminar points, I didn't know much about it until the scrub really came out, but they're peptide ones. So just like we think of the GLP ones, we can hear peptide and peptide. this is also a peptide, it stimulates cyclical AMP and it signals this pathway, so actually, so what's going on again is the antagonistic, agonistic relationship and there's this potential targeting for this therapeutic activity. 


What you're gonna see in the next slide is where it works out in our parts of the body so that you can come a little bit familiar with it because again, this drug, especially varnities, maybe it's you. 


So, I borrowed this slide from my amazing friend, Dr. Roebfeldt. It looks at where all the little and little importance are in your body. It shows that there are receptors that exist. There's five subtypes, but what we're talking about specifically for this lecture is the MC4R, which is located in the CNS and that's gonna include your hypothalamus, your dendrites, your dendritic cells and your osteobots. 


The function of sexual behaviors again, so what we're talking about today is this kind of anti-information, feeding control, energy from the end of spaces that you can see on this slide right here. So when you look at the mechanism of action, you can see here that the way it works, the mechanism of action in the dopamine receptors, there's a decreased release of dopamine in HSCB, as you've been hearing us talk about all morning, 


and then treatment with HSCB and bryllenetide, there's an increase in production of the release of dopamine, and that leads to better saturation of those dopamine receptors along that 1.4 receptor pathway. 


You can kind of see that through the diagram. So in the clinical studies, it looked at 31 clinical studies, 2500 people, and it showed efficacy in both HSCB in reducing distress. It's one dose. You don't have to think about it. 


And again, just having conversations with your patients with it. I'm going to slide through these really fast because it's telling me I have one and a half minutes, and it's not for six minutes. I get really OCD, so if you have any slides. 


But in the base three, it's kind of a layout of what they did in the program. And just again, another double-blind placebo in terms of efficacy. You can see here that in the FSCB desired domain, you can see improvement in both studies over placebo. 


With these slides, again, another representation, same type of data, specifically significant improvement in the studies 301 and 302 in FSCB desired domain from the baseline. In this study, the graph shows, again, a reduction in distress and well, again, statistically significant in both improvements in desire as well as reduction in distress and the FSCB scale. 


And then in this slide, again, another statistically significant improvement in distress related to the design. So with the safety profile, The biggest side effect, again, is the nausea, maybe some blushing and headaches. 


Again, a lot of it can be mitigated with having really good conversations with rotations and respect expectations for them. There are some off-label uses for some CNS agents. There's reprogram. There also is a scale that we can use, like moving them up to the use of reprogram. 


I like to use it quite a bit with my patients to take the SSRIs, the griprion, and the SNRIs. It kind of works with this agonistic, anti-vitistic activity. There's also been some off-label uses for using the busperinum right around that 30 to 60 milligrams for low libido. 


And again, just really cautioning your patients that some of these agents have a lot of side effects to that, just so that they're aware. In terms of over-the-counter medications that are there, so it's still up. 


that has L-archeting in it. It works really well, like mine, for more of my post-menopausal patients, and they tend to respond the best. They, I'm not sure if both of mine is here, but they have wonderful products that are really supportive of us, that they swish, and they are great, the best. 


The reason why this medication works so well is it really enhances blood flow, which is really important, especially in our post-menopausal patients. They're gonna have a decreased estrogen. You're gonna hear Dr. 


Brimman talk all around GSM, and that decrease in the estrogen level of sensitivity, and that's for this drug, or off over the counter, or most would be really nicely. So again, it really kinda helps with just more of that production in that area. 


So, investigational agents, not much out there for us. I'm gonna kinda just leave this here, just saying that we need research, we need hope in this world around now, and then with your day losses, one of the most important things, you're gonna get the call Monday morning, or you're gonna do this on a patient, and the next day later, you're gonna call you and say, it's not covered by your insurance. 


So, one of the most important things you can do is, you can use BillRX, that's where we do our low-answering through. They're probably not gonna be delivered by most insurances, but what I normally tell people is that with low-answering, usually Friday for eight to 12 weeks, if it does not work, then you know that they're a non-responder, and they're not out a whole lot. 


But for some patients, if it's expensive, it can be $100 or $4 a month, but then again, if it does enhance your relationship and sexual quality, that may be worth it to patients. So yeah, there's lots of different things you can use for that. 


So in summary, you heard 2F8 approved, just set expectations with these medications, especially with an algebraic bio, and I figure that it works on the CNS, and you have our slides, and thank you so much. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
