

We're the three resource that is not affiliated with any kind of big pharma or anything that they offer a lot of information on. At the end of this important type of talk, I want you to be able to identify the categories of the public. 


These are the frameworks that I'm going to present to you to organize the information, make a development evaluation, to be inappropriately assigned treatment options to patients. And you want to identify the treatment that are individualized to the patient, not only based on their condition, but also based on, again, meeting them where they are, individualizing things so that we can actually successfully treat them. 


In terms of diversity, I think this is a more important time than ever to recognize how disenfranchised many populations in this world are when it comes to access to care, particularly when it comes to safety and everything. 


I want to especially shout out to patients who have intersectional identities, being a black queer patient, or an unhoused woman, when these people are at even greater disadvantage when it comes to accessing care. 


And many of them also suffer from a higher proportion of the nation of others. So as you meet your patients, please consider the struggle that it took them to get to you. And if you're about to give them a little bit of validated and what they've experienced, and keep in mind the struggles and the problems that they've led you through that journey so that you can offer them a learning schedule. 


So just a little reminder to take a second step from online. I'm totally tired of hearing about it right now, but when we talk about it so much, you have to consider all of these lenses together in order to come up with a treatment that's actually going to help people. 


So let's talk about the dating. Both the dating guys will work around quite a bit. How many people have... or how the patient comes to them, and who's the diagnosis of the ballastinium. Great, so many of these patients have gotten this diagnosis from a clinician who did an exam, and had some kind of historical interdiction of what's going on in their history, and they walked up to the diagnosis of the early disease pain in their whole life. 


So, let's begin from this. You went to an orthopedic surgeon, and you said, hey, I had a pain in my knee. And then they did the first exam, and they asked me about your history, and then you walked out, and they said, so you have to be a pain. 


With that being an appropriate use of your time, your money, right, you had to take on a day of work to come to this visit. You know, this is a major sacrifice that patients are needing by making themselves available to come over our office. 


And when they come in, telling us something, and then they walk out with us, and I'm telling them any new information, it's really disrespectful to them. So what I implore to all of you is to never give the diagnosis of ballastemia, unless you truly rule out all of the potential causes that are treatable to identify it. 


So what are those? So this is the thing that we really, really, really can help and set these all our needs into two sections of the ball. We have to start a final project and say we can go and take those all our needs. 


And then there's also the need to move on here. So we said that we were more than free to use. We're going to draw these here. Now, you'll see. Let's move on to the second one. We'll zoom in on the ball, and then we'll get to the formulas, colors, and models. 


OK? And then in your brain, you're going to be looking around. I'm going to use the history of the legal control. So again, he spent about 30 minutes of me talking to their history. And then I know the who, who they actually acted with. 


Did this start with the what? Describe the beat. What does it feel like? I've given them a bank of words that I have to choose from. They just say, it hurts. I don't have the opportunity to curse. So I'll say, is it funny? 


Probably, it would be easy for me. And then I'm going to be able to tell you until you hear the exam. And then when you're actually touching, and making plans to do that in the words, you put a sensation to it, which is helpful. 


There is something outside, and the entrance is deeper inside. But yeah, some patients won't be able to vocalize that until you do the exam when you walk down the room. And then when? The timeline is actually one of the most important parts of the history. 


So you have to take time to recognize any medications, treatments, or medical conditions, or big travums, whether it's physical trauma, or other trauma, or event, that might have contributed to their issue, to their pain. 


And then you have to figure out when that happened in relation to their pain. know your document should be almost like a chronological like this happened and this happened and came happened and this happened and came out worse but this happened and came out better. 


So you can really out match. What are the things that are fascinating? And then the Why. So this is where thinking about a bigger system of the faced of the important. You know, but medications with me, with that normal insertion, or even touch and Ebola, have no history of childhood. 


They have perfectly happy childhood. They have lovely parents. They have really nice supposed to be with friends in high school. Like, there's just nothing here, so at some point we have to let it go, okay? 


That said, there is also a lot of unwrittenized trauma, and it's not just sexual. So there are other things that trauma is about, or about kids being in offices or having one. If you know that you're physically a prime person, but emotionally, that can also be very damaging to their physiology. 


What happens to you, like Oprah, is a recent book. It does a great job of describing the issue. She talks with a psychiatrist that she has actually spent a lot of her career collaborating with. We're still working with this team. 


And they go through the effects of trauma and post-physiology. So I think it's a great time for me. And then the body keeps the story. And like the big, lots of big nods that you got through that book about relationships and other forms. 


But it's all worth it. So you have to think about these other pieces of their history, too, by the means that I think oppression can pose this. It can make pain worse. Also, pain can cause other things like depression. 


So it's a bi-directional relationship. There are a lot of different types of tissue disorders, like elderly animals, right? This is a big, up-and-coming topic in our society. POTS, MCAS, competitive sports, major injuries, and nutriosis. 


And through trans surgery, that patient comes to you after you hear this direct lead, which frees them out. They're vibrating. They're dimensional leading. But now they have an issue with pain that they can't quite figure out. 


I guess in IDD, there are irritable bowel syndrome and things like problems for ulcerative pain. They're all inflammatory conditions that can cause the pelvic floor to repulse, right? Scatter them, times up, and help the patient. 


So these pieces are helpful until the patient is alive, which is going to help harm them with the tools to be able to advocate for their health. So we talked about this. Offer an exam to start your plan. 


Use them in order. These pieces of the piece go on by a year. These years are less than five hours a piece. You get a small amount. You get a year-round. This is the site that you see in my office. It is the most important tool in my evaluation. 


And I love a microscope. Love, love, love a microscope. But this is actually more important for pain. So the best deal, remember, you need to divide and cast, right? Many of the diagnoses that we talk about are differentiated by dividing the whole box in half so that you're thinking about top of the best deal, right? 


So three and nine on the top, on the 12 o'clock side, and then the bottom side towards 6 o'clock. And we'll go over that. You went over this deal already, so I'm doing it again. We know I'm really interested in time. 


But this kid did test, right? So you saw what you said you took earlier. I'm using it with water, typically. And I usually use cold because it's a returner. Sensation is also helpful when you're thinking about opening a lungarabula on the outside. 


So the first part of the Q-tip test, so I'm going to cure it to my skin, you're mapping out what was done on her. Okay, essentially is what you're doing. And then when you get into the best deal, then you're thinking about hormones and muscles, and then also potentially nerves. 


I use a lot of the anatomically correct language so that patients understand exactly what we're doing. And you obviously... expected people don't want to use a certain word, but it's important for patients to understand the language so that they can then go on Google, like we were learning earlier, and search the correct term so they can get the correct information. 


You always also want to distinguish between a normal sort of scratchy and sensitive sensation and pain, and sometimes that can be tricky, but just talking to patients with these answers sometimes will be touching certain areas of differential, that's helpful. 


Okay, diagnostic testing. Most patients come to me with 1 million STI use laws, right? Like, literally 1 million. They have a stack of papers, and it's stable, it's so thick, and it's all just PCR testing, permanent things, and it's all patented, or there's like a positive use law for BV, but they don't even have BV symptoms. 


So stay away from that, please. If you need to evaluate their discharge, or if they have a discharge of needs, or they have a burden of need, then it's reasonable to do a web mount. A web mount, like I just told you, we do a whole session on this in the fall course, even if you know so much information about the list of charges, and then this algorithm is really nice, like how do you use a web mount to kind of prioritize what type of task you've invented in the order of all of that? 


Okay, I can talk for two hours about physiology and my capacity if I want today. You also want to consider imaging depending on the patient's situation, and foremost depending on the situation, so we'll talk a little bit about that. 


All right, so in the upper left hand corner, our favorite mentor, it's actually what he created, is Algorithm. And this algorithm, it's very colorful and it's welding on, so I'm going to kind of harsh it out into a couple different pieces, so it's a little bit more adjustable for you. 


But this algorithm really helps work as you're reading when you're thinking about each, because literally I had it posted on the wall in the main, and I made my students and residents go through this, okay, so now let's, okay, I've been here, okay, now let's, okay, your history's in this. 


And so this is how, in fact, I discovered that it is all the time that I was first writing, and still do sometimes. So it's comprehensive, differential, and working. When they say first down there, we have to ask them what hurts, right? 


And if they can't tell us when we have them get an expert exam, we need to make sure that we're having them point to what actually hurts. Because sometimes what they're saying hurts, and they're in China, but actually it's their drill bit. 


Or maybe it's their living in the norm, right? Or maybe it's their investing, which is the most likely thing. So make sure it really makes me go up all those different reasons. So when we're talking about lung pain, I'm talking about pain on the keratinous skin on the outside, okay? 


So keratinous skin, outside, all our pain. And we're looking for skin changes, or we might not see anything, okay? That's kind of the two pathways you're going to take early. The number of times that you talk to somebody and they've had no pain, like it hurts here and they're pointing to the keratinitis skin, but you don't see anything, raise your hand. 


Yeah, that's really common. So, when is available to get change? Right, we need to look at the situation, right? Is there a dermatosis? Is there a BIN or cancer? Is there an infection like the candida, for example, in the skin? 


So, really, really common cause of external, bolloid irritation and pain, like fissure and pain, all these things. But, on the those are kind of the categories, okay? And sometimes in both. The muscle can pretty much overlap with anything else. 


And then, with pudendal neuralgia, PGAAD, I'm going to talk a little bit about these things, but we're not going to go over a lot of that today. We're just going to do a quick peek. Pudendal neuralgia is inflammation, irritation of the pudendal nerve that often happens as it rests around the atrial spine. 


Most commonly, I see patients with this who have a recent birth or even a recent birth that you've had pain for a long time. Just something that was a little time ago stretched, you know, you don't head. 


There's also people who had a really, I was asked like, do you have a really big fall? And, you know, each of them on the stairs, they can sit for a while. That's another, like, you know, they tell the injury, which can result in public court issues, but also it can result in a neural nerve issue. 


Final pathology. So, we're going to have a diagnostic testing chart, where you're going to get an MRI, it's going to be potentially helpful, but you're totally going to want to do that. work group adjacent to the region, so start more superficial here at the same, looking at the outside, addressing the muscles, and work group, they love the path of the nerve, okay, the path that you're gonna have to enter your diagnosis. 


And the neuroimplanatory things like MCAS, chronic disc infections that lead to nerve proliferation, or nerve irritation, even on the outer skin, that hyperalgesa, it's important to recognize these things as well, and sometimes you have to go back to their history, and think about why they might have more sensitivity on their skin, it may not be obvious to you that way. 


Public core dysfunction, we're gonna talk about that, but it is probably the most common cause of being particularly unprovoked, peeing on the vulva. Okay, so case one, you have a 37-year-old, live bioenergy, one pee line, assigned pee number, individual who presents for pee, itching and cuffs on the vulva. 


History includes both unprovoked and unprovoked, Some provoked meaning, they're just sitting there and they're hurting, and then provoked meaning on some of the touches of their decorants. They had difficulty wearing tight clothing, sex, ankle, and tears when exercising because it was lighting up their skin. 


They had no medications. In terms of history, in the battle over six months ago, there was a significant tearing, a traumatic recovery, and they were still breastfeeding. First time I see, I feel like I have a few medications moving on exam, so if you looked at it all up, great, didn't ignore it. 


And there's a loss of melanin, and this patient is a diverse, intimate individual. There's lichenification and thickening of the skin. You see that tissue paper kind of a crippled texture when you move the skin side to side. 


This is the patient. This is not an actual patient, but this case is based on a derivation of mine who I now see for just a little bit. And she's still there now, but this patient is, you know, really suffering, and you can tell it feels like a person suffering. 


But this patient had a bed in her six months ago. This skin change, that's how this is going to go. And then how much she needs to die six months ago. So this person had an army circle in San Antonio, and they burned. 


How many people living at the vulva during their repair? So we have been trained in a society that ignores the vulva as a location that matters on the body, right? We're like blind to it. And so we have to open our eyes and we'll kind of see what we're seeing. 


So this patient has what? What do you guys think? Tell a little bit about this one. Lichenclerosis. Lichenclerosis, yeah, okay. Say it louder. Lower estrogen. Great. So lactating in the individual. So, you know, if you think about that. 


Jennifer, you're in a synodrome of lactation. is what we're using now. It looks like a good look at that. And then paper-time public art principles, right? So there's also some really technical tenders, like the garden, because of the people, traumatic experience, because of the pain from a hormonal decrease, which Dr. 


Wu's gonna talk about next. And obviously because of all these cuts and erosion, it's almost all of that because of the severe inflammatory situation happening. So for this treatment, you want to treat all these things. 


For this treatment, just treat all these things, right? So we have to look at who made it all or not to look at what we see here. We put some sclerosis on the outside, and then we need to treat with some kind of hormonal breeding, which is like a survival, on the inside. 


And we literally have diaphragm, so we give patients with arrows pointing to different parts of the bulb and into the vagina, so they know where to put everything. Because patients will often say, well, I only used this one breeding because I didn't know that was good. 


So we have her in my patients' room, remember? We're going to have to do some different areas of all these different men. And then of course, how the purpose of both therapy, crucial communication, likely needs a lot of training and coordination after that trying to work, disruptive, many of the people there, and also it's particularly a superficial layer. 


So like these girls, just a quick shout out for like, because it's so common in this, and it is so common. It's not only the condition of the skin. It's commonly, and in general, the radius of women are people with vulvas. 


They kind of have men, right? So people with fetuses also get led with cirrhosis, and people get led with cirrhosis on other parts of their body. It's characterized by spirit inflammation, and causes storing, or identification, which is thickening. 


How many people were told, at some point, their led with cirrhosis was a thin skin disorder? They were skin thinning. That's right, I was told this too, but I'm just reading the public textbooks. It's not thin, right? 


That prickling texture that people talk about is not about the thinness or the thickness of the skin. It's about the fact that it's inflexible, and it's inflexible because it literally is calloused. That's shadowing money, and that very superficial layer is very, very thick. 


So you have to recognize that it's a time retreat. We've used steroids for up to a month for this region, and I've treated any superimposed infections like Canada, which has happened, bacterial infections, because of those bitches and cuts that is from the skin barrier. 


You have people engaged. This is a reproductive age person, right? And they have like a cirrhosis, right? So what do we learn? We learn about the volume of the distribution, pre-tuberdole, and post-mepapole. 


We're just like way out of your brain, because that just makes it more reproductive age people, which is not helpful. Dr. Kavanay did a study with a Chilean resident a few years ago that, through social media, like I have lots of data on reproductive people when it's cirrhosis. 


What were their presenting symptoms, and it wasn't the classic itching? it was actually tearing and pain with penetration. So very interesting, people don't consent the same way, depending on their aging and estrogen status, and you have to recognize that. 


Important to treat if you have to increase risk of breast tone. All right, the best you will ever be ready. Okay, this is like the most important thing that I want you all to take from this talk, is this algorithm. 


Because if you can get this algorithm down over the next couple of months of your practice, you will save lives. Like, you will help people live a more happy and fulfilling life. You know that something is better. 


I don't even have to examine that. They walk into my office and I'm like, I don't recognize you anymore. Like, who are you? You're a return patient, I don't know who you are. And they literally look like different people. 


They are smiling, their affect is completely different. So please, this is me. Are we ready? Okay. Okay, so the cibulodynia, remember, we're going to divide the vestibule in half. So if there's pain, only on the posterior half of the vestibule, when you need your cue to test, what is the diagnosis of the vestibulodynia? 


Say it louder. Muscle dysfunction, okay? The anterior part of the vestibule is not tender, only the posterior is most likely muscle. I say most likely because there's always the patient that will confuse us all, but we'll work through them. 


But what if the anterior vestibule is also tender, then what do you think it came out of? Foreign language. Foreign language. Foreign language. And nerves and inflammation, right? Where I'm kind of dragging you together. 


All right, so let's go through this algorithm. The anterior and posterior vestibule are tender on this patient base that we were talking about. So we're going to go over our formulae mediae versus neurodegenerative. 


Okay? What are the differences between those? This is all in the history when we first meet a patient. So if the patient has been on _____ for a long period of time, particularly if they're painters, starting to look after they were starting to feel, if they are lactating and that's when the pain started, if they're menopausal, if they're on medications or had surgeries, for example, for breast cancer or other painters that may have altered their hormones, 


these are all reasons to suspect hormone-mediated pain. Now, which hormones are going to be used to treat these conditions instead of depend on which hormones you think are involved? So particularly with birth control pills, there is an increase in sex hormone binding body. 


If you've heard that word a set up all the time, it's not right. So that is a protein that comes from the liver. And the liver makes it because it sees extra hormones around from the birth control pill. 


Or it's not just hormone in front of the cat, train, whatever. And when you see that, the _____ that binds up the free testosterone, the free just hormone, the free estrogen, all in the body, because it wants to lower the levels. 


It's like, there's too much going on. You don't have to lower the levels. And ethyl esteridiol, which is the primary estrogen that's used in birth control and contraceptive medications, is very potent. 


So you really need the opposite protein. It has specialty and orally, and it goes straight through the liver person. Now, what's happening with ovaries? Ovaries are suppressed, right, by contraceptives because you're suppressing ovulations or prevent pregnancy or to prevent menthol pain. 


And so when you have that decrease in ovarian function, you're not producing as much hormones, and then you have an SHPG going crazy, finding up all the hormones, you're gonna get a decreased level to stop strolling in particular because there's no testosterone in the liver. 


My liver is not validated. What's a testosterone? Your pill. Your pill. Okay, but until then, the pill is really important because there is this great night for me now because I know you won't know about menathitis, and I know you won't know about that. 


but many people do not realize that the pill has this side effect. Not everybody is affected by this. There are some people who are not affected by this pill in this way. And that can be explained by a study looking at receptor affinity. 


There are some people who have receptors that are like hummers, as full-screen today. They need a lot of attacks to get going. It's going to be a lot of testosterone. And so those books are going to be more susceptible to having issues on the pill versus somebody who doesn't have a problem, who's going to have much more high-affinity receptor, which is going to be like a smart turn. 


It just needs a tiny, small testosterone thing. It's still for who is down to do your job. Does that make sense? It's like a lot. But it's really important to recognize that physiology when things get up. 


So now let's go over to nerve delivery. So you have acquired and congenital. And all of that is based on timeline, for the most part. If someone has always had pain, even with a tampon insertion, some patients with congenital will also tell me, at least from you, it's going to be painful. 


And so now that's one of my questions. If I suspect congenital nerve delivery is going to be a big deal, yes, you get better at saying half the time. But I ask them, did you always know that it was going to be painful at first when you put in a tampon? 


And they're like, yeah, that's why I never tried. Or, yeah, that's why I didn't tell marriage to have sex. So those folks who were super excited to wait until marriage, sometimes they have a little bit of a protective mechanism because they think it's going to be painful. 


When they were two years old and they put in their fingers in every hole in their bodies, they realized, wow, that's a really painful problem. They all remember that experience. But they always knew that it was going to be painful. 


So they were super patient. They know what's going on. Acquired is going to be more related to some kind of irritant or potentially infection that is causing the nerve endings to become lower threshold of fire and also sometimes proliferate more superficially into the brain. 


And then finally, if there's only pain in the posterior, we're looking more at the other side of the other sore muscles, pain can vary in the spirit and in the body. So at least just to say, like, well, at first it hurts a little bit, and then, like, maybe I get into it and I'm fine with the pain at all. 


Generally, it can be a little bit more muscle, it's also a little bit relaxing after the first bit. So we're going to continue with that, you know, strategy. Okay, based on the two, 24-year-old GZ, there's this woman who presents to you for an annual exam. 


She says she cannot have pain in the beginning, of course, with a seasonal partner. This began one year ago. She's on a divine release for two years. Medical and surgical history. She has had anxiety that's treated with therapy. 


And she feels that pain is really leading her anxiety for us, and not for us. And especially because her anxiety grants others, and she needs to get rid of the secret partner, or is there any, you know, Any kind of contact with a blood hand, which is afraid of any advance, or any acceptance of advance, is a leading two-sex exam. 


You lose, here's my skill, a leading trombone outside. But the best tool is very recommended, especially around the gland of Austria. The pelvic hormones will be very tight and tender. So, gland of the mane is super-violatious red, and you can see that it's really clustered around the gland of Austria. 


Do you see that? So, sometimes it's usually less obvious than this, I would say. It's a little bit more subtle, but you do have to spread things to look. So, make sure that you're really spreading the lady and I, or essentially the baby, for the reason. 


It's pen-tolerate. What I'm going to do is not tolerate them. And think about labs in this case. So, if you're suspecting a remarkable cause, the labs are very helpful in that they can be supportive of the diagnosis, but I don't necessarily send you diagnosis. 


I use my history and my physical exam. And so, I would send this patient home with a gel that day. So, I would prescribe them a gel, it's a hormone gel, that would get compound. This is a situation where we don't have, and to be approved, topical testosterone that's dosed well from the pelvic hormones. 


It literally doesn't exist. And if you were to try and dilute, or dose testing, or androgyl for this reason, you're just like, no, it's impossible to get the right type of solution. Because this concentration is so small. 


So, the concentration we use is estradiol 0.01%, 0.03%. You're going to hear different things from different folks. 0.01, 0.02, typically 0.2020. The patient population is 0.01%. It's the same as your commercially available estradiol screening. 


And then testosterone, 0.1%, is what you're going to use for topical testosterone. I tell them to put a piece as an hour. or about a half a gram, or depending on their pharmacy, two clicks from the low peak dissenter on a vestibule twice a day start. 


And I can continue that until I see them again. I'm demonstrating, all the people who were in the ballpark organization yesterday, demonstrate how to put the gel on. So I literally use a little plant in the gel and I put it on for them and show them how to do it so that they put it on appropriately. 


Because the worst thing is when patients go away from you for two to three months to come back and they have nobody in the right place. Like that's really sad for everybody. So make sure that your education is on exactly how to apply it. 


I told them, if you're one level in, to get in that spot. Because remember, this is a 3D structure from the hallway before you get into the vagina. Physical therapy and psychotherapy are also important, especially if these patients go to a lot of theater or on the station. 


So how do I calculate this 3D testosterone that you saw on the last slide? So again, this isn't... crucial for diagnosis, but it can be supportive. The company draw their testosterone and S-H-B-G is like our ability to most important things to check, but you can also add an document and that's what it's all about. 


But you throw those things in and it's how clear you should do online. And that number that I put in the box is the one that you want to use. Normal is considered to be 0.4 to 0.8, and that connects with S-A-D-R, but it's still up for discussion. 


It depends a little bit on who you ask. Again, it's helpful for patient transparency. It's helpful for supporting anxiety and participating with increases as your only factor for diagnosis. In patients where I'm like, I don't know, you brought up those CTs, like it was like 10 years ago, you haven't taken one since then, some people have elevated S-A-B-G for years after stopping. 


And so for those patients, I will do my best and let's see what your S-A-G is doing now. Is it decreasing your testosterone? I may be more likely to use a hormone treatment and going down hormone treatment or a proliferative route, okay? 


So pro tips, start twice a day, count the lesion on timeline. You're not going to have to sit in a machine that's supposed to be two to three months. These time moves that are just so up-regulate again and to start clearing out stream effects and tissue. 


Consider delaying physical therapy as to the fact that bovar pain and particular pain is better. Still be part of it to tolerate any visual exam or sure point manipulation internally when your vessel is still in pain. 


And then being down wants to significantly better. I introduce pro speed for being in a longer term and the total recommendation duration of duration is really unknown. So if I try to get you to stay on for at least six to 12 months, if you remove that work control pill, right, if you bottom off the pill and start something like ICT or another non-promotional method for contraception and then you can consider starting to lean off of it and see how you do. 


Some patients are on it for a long time and they're trying to get off of it and it's safe, but some people want to. and try to get off of it if they can. I checked the total CDO six weeks after starting just to make sure that I'm not getting too much. 


I had exactly one patient in my six and a half years of prescribing their content at hundreds of times who had elevated SAT and we actually were at an extra one when she had acne in her throat and it turned out she was kind of slobbered down. 


So, just make sure patients are obviously using their throat. So what about nerve delivery and pain? We have to figure out a timeline to determine how likely it is to have nerve delivery. So, have they always had pain? 


Ever since you had chronic surgeon? Ever since putting it in the green side? Ever since trying to have sex? Or have you seen any networks that would be in general? Or is it the pain that started mid-week in their marriage? 


Or they had sex with several different partners and then all of a sudden now they're having a knee? And think about other related things like chronic infection, development of a skin condition like in plants, for example, to get rid of the inflammatory. 


So you've got to look at these other pieces when you're putting together that timeline. But the signal of tissue from your critically chemical nervous is generally not as, kind of, confined to the ossia of the glands. 


It tends to be a little bit more confused. But it can look normal. So like, I would say the majority of my neuroprotective patients, the cellular color actually looks normal. So what is this inflammation in connection to talking about? 


So, when we talk about inflammation, we talk about prostaglandins and haloofins that are pro-inflammatory. These are increased by things like mass cell differentiation, by chronic yeast infections, and this causes nosis sectors to actually reduce in terms of their threshold for firing. 


So the same touch that they would have had no pain with, you know, before their pain started, now after their chronic yeast infection development, a very proliferative pain, now that same touch is causing severe pain, staining, burning, cutting, and sensation, okay? 


Treatment plan. So, treatment plan in terms of nerve proliferative meaning is gonna focus on nerves, right? Makes sense, right? Oh my gosh, why do we have these studies where we're just looking at volumetin and gabapentin? 


Makes no sense, right? What causes volumetin? So now we're gonna put in on the nerve-related cause. So we're using things like topical gabapentin, we can compound it. Topical interictiline, compound it. 


Topical chromaline, so we have a little bit of evidence for that, and then capsaicin cream is one that is kind of like a torsion, I guess. Capsaicin, yes, it is actually a chromatin cream. Absolutely, get out of your chili crunch. 


So this is used in a very small minority of patients. I have exactly two people who are using this and loving it. It has to be the right patient who's ready to interest in the burn pain, even if you put something on before putting the capsaicin on, it still burns. 


They put it on for 20 minutes, and then wash the box. And I know these lights are not downloading for you guys, so I will make sure that they become available. syllabus. I'm sorry about that, because they should be there. 


And then there's other things like constructions, which I personally do not offer, but I think people can do. In fact, they definitely offer a lot more of like an ounce of hair and blow ducts, and if you're on just a little bit about this, but it's kind of old. 


And then the city like to be, so the city like to be is a surgery where we actually remove the vestibule. You're kind of skimming away that superficial tissue to get rid of the inner endings, and it is a hard recovery. 


So it's something you don't want to really do. And I have a couple patients who come to me after having had a vestibule to me with a provider that was supposed to dabble in sexual pain. And I was like, warning, Wayne, don't go to dabble in your slate. 


I know dabble in anyone's day crowd, you should be doing it. So no dabble in surgery or food. So, I'm just wondering if you were interviewing, there's many of us who, as you performed in the city-led meeting, you complete the city-led meeting. 


Okay? And the number of witnesses I've had to do, and I know other folks have been driven, have been, for those who have been part of the best tables removed, is unfortunate. A number of patients who've had only COVID floor pain, and they have a posterior to city-led meeting as their treatment. 


And the main ones being either being still not better than being able to develop like a team. Like, it's shocking. It's very sad that they had to go through that really challenging recovery in order to, you know, not get better. 


These are some of the sources for the freshmen. We need more research in this, honestly. There's a great dose here at the last annual meeting. Looking at applicators and by essentially like a piece of silicone, you've got to choose like a best tool. 


You can put it to the next tool with whatever medication integrated into it. So I hope that I see you working like that involved. And then more long-term treatments that are more permanent and more increased on to the rest of the day. 


Okay. I'm not going to go over this case. I have time. This is a very typical female nephrologic case where there's pain on the outside of the vulva. And the patient comes with a sedation of gold, and they have a mass within their vagina. 


And they can't figure out their very common ways to present them. Who didn't want to round up? Treat it with a general box. Physical therapy. And all of these slides will be available to you. Dr. Rube, come on up here. 


She didn't want to see you about. Thank you. Thank you. All my time. All right. You guys are going to clap. 
