

And the speciality is really difficult for me. So I'm going to take the next question. I'm not sure. I think it's supposed to be my dear job and the firework professor of the class. Jan, you are a member of the public board who is working in this community in New York. 


John, we will meet specialists until they're in the office. Yeah. Yeah, good morning, I am a researcher, so if you have any questions, they should be directed to me, but I probably don't want to ask these fabulous questions, so if you have any questions for me, I'll ask them more. 


Good morning, I'm Heather Howard, I'm a sexuality counselor, and I'm a sexual educator, and I'm facing the center's discovery area, and I'm finding that my area of interest is public and sexual chronic pain, and very common sexual justice. 


Okay, so last year when I started this off, we actually started with some fun facts, just to kind of get everyone ready to go. So don't be bashful, just ask any question that comes to mind, if anything to do with pain and female sexual health, we're welcome to try to hear those questions. 


So I will share one fact that just embarrassed myself to get us started off here, so when I went to college, I went to an art school, and I was a scientist at a Bachelor of Arts in Biology, and I joined a STEM poetry group, and I wrote a poem entitled Fuck me West, which I performed live, and I didn't know it was going to be recorded, and I played on campus station like night and day. 


So, I did organic chemistry, and I did chemistry for the rest of this thing, and we liked talking for a minute, and I said, sure, are you okay? I said, yeah, fine, everything's great, I was doing something wrong with my grades, and no, no, that's fine, I still have your own. 


performance on the campus TV, I just want to make sure that you're okay. So if that isn't enough to embarrass me and destroy us all, come ask any questions at this point. Hi, my name is Jamie McCartney. 


I'm a family medicine doctor in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And I will just tell you the general public being a force that I took a few years ago completely transformed my practice. A lot of specialists get people sent to them. 


I will just say once you start really asking people just at their normal name visit, it pretty much feels like a 90% yes when you ask people questions about these things that a lot of women are experiencing things. 


But I promised I would get that type of family medicine women's group that we would like to know is there a maxinal of vaginal estrogen that can be used before you need to do like progesterone or anything. 


So because some people it seems like being a little bit more than that, one gram, twice a week. And so we wanted to know is there anything to back that up so other people feel safer. I know some people that's not scared, but some people have. 


So that's my question. So if there's some other people here that I think would know that question better than being normal might be a good voice for the reason. I would say 10 micrograms twice a week is what the magic of it is. 


So that's how many micrograms. So that's how many micrograms. So if we have 50 micrograms, and the baguette is 10 micrograms, so if you did 5 baguette of tablets every single day, that's what I hope... 


Bembrane is systemic. Bembrane is systemic. So I'm saying, Bembrane, you need progesterone, right? So with Bembrane, you need progesterone. And they only make a point about Bembrane. So I know that it has done the data and the blood levels. 


You know, most of the data that looks at blood levels uses a 10 micrograms of baguette of hemp. So the older studies require this. And at the end, it's not so bad. What do you need progesterone with baguette of hemp? 


What do you need progesterone with baguette of hemp? What do you need progesterone with baguette of hemp? What do you need progesterone with baguette of hemp? What do you need progesterone with baguette of hemp? 


So for ashtrays, for the creams, prescribing is usually one to four grams. Now, I never use four grams clinically, and most of us don't. Typically, one gram or two grams is completely fine. But I would say if you're not getting a therapeutic benefit that would have, then consider where the gene is located and exactly what you're treating. 


Because the reality of the situation is that the vore vestibule has estrogen receptors, sure, but it also has androgen receptors. So if you're treating the vaginal atrophy, like the giant has a lot of estrogen receptors, also has androgen receptors as well, you may not be treating the vestibule with your vaginal estrogen. 


So that's a consideration. But as far as systemic absorption, studies show that the levels stay within a postpartum possible range. However, you have to remember that if someone is very trophic to begin with, you're going to get a little bit of systemic absorption at first with vaginal estrogen that is transient, and then that decreases as the mucosa fills up and becomes more healthy and becomes less systemic absorption. 


And so you have to work with your patients that they may have some breast tenderness, they may have some of those high estrogen feelings at first, for the first couple of weeks, but that includes the first down. 


Some people will do a starter dose for two weeks, they'll do daily and they'll do a maintenance dose of two times a week, sometimes three times a week. Clinically, do not do that. I just put them on two to three times a week from the start to avoid those systemic symptoms at first. 


Does that answer your question? Yeah, I can say that. The experts say it's totally fine. Yeah, I will send them to your site. So this is an amazing panel, so I've got a tough one for you. And I would love several of you to chime in. 


So in the patient, Gessarina saw a poster presentation of a woman that had a completely obliterated opening to her vagina and they said, it sticks back together once you surgically open it and you have to do titlers. 


So in our clitoral fibrosis patients who, if you release that, they're completely stable when you do that surgery. You put them on estrogen cream, you put them on clovidazole, you may tie back the lady of Majora to fit all of it, but that suits your breaks and it still sticks back together. 


What are my expert's options for that particular patient? So first of all, you need to know why they have obliteration. Well, it's like its chlorists. So that's number one. But not everyone may know that or identify that going in. 


And so, lichen sclerosis is often this side note, unidentified, there's a, there's a five-year delay in diagnosis. So that's number one, to look for signs of lichen sclerosis, especially in these cases of severe scarring. 


And then you're going to want to do dilator therapy as well to maintain TPC on the insurance. Is there any divides? Yeah, there is. Okay, so, Rachel, I'm from Columbia as well, but from my first doctorate of regimen after laces of clitoral lesions. 


So I have them apply, yes, an estrogen testosterone combination. I also, you can do estrogen, just estrogen as well, and estrogen isiline, and then clobatazole. And I'm going to do that once a day, even if they're in remission, to that healing area. 


And then I also have them retract the track use at least six times a day. So once in the morning, anytime they use the restroom, once in the evening, because it's really important to have the practice sliding over the lens, literally, to prevent regurgitation. 


It's a huge challenge, and you're not alone, but we identified you with your comment that I would say, our team has had really impressive marketing videos of patients retracting themselves in the office, and show them, you know, conference will be an adaptation. 


Actually, like I said, the patient has a key that she tracked on the ear of this device, and I was like, I didn't even know it was so available here, so the only FDA approved a clitoral suction, device of a real suction. 


I don't know why they call it the other ones a clitoral suction, they're not a clitoral suction, but this is an actual clitoral vacuum device, and I was like, oh, that's brilliant, but it's a $300, and I can't call my patients if they have to buy this thing, but so I do have a great idea if it's actually a huge challenge. 


Yeah, and for the inventors of the panel, I would thank you, just like you. We've been a dilator to go to the vagina. Do we need to invent something to go on top of this? It doesn't cost $400. Exactly. 


That they can. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Do you have any expectations as to all this, any like pop-up programs? Yes, we're back together. We do lots of pop-up programs, lots of us, and again, it's that balance, which we keep you at work, and you just put those things back together, but also the need you to pull it back. 


So, it is gymnastics, truly. And you know what? I think there needs to be a lot more research here, because there are people who never live here, and there are people who are re-inferable when they leave the office, and it is, and then the other challenge is when you block them, or the people who work since they're blocked in the office, that they, it's more like they get turned into this, and they don't want to retract. 


So, this is not like a clear cut. And the other thing I just want to mention is if someone has like a cleanness, and they have scarring related to like a cleanness, it has to be a lot more severe. So, this is just my counsel. 


I'm just thrilled to have you all in one space here, it's very exciting to me. I had a patient who had recurrent BB, had a very active sex life, came to me, we treated her BB and then had secondary vestibulodynia, and she was really opposed to any sort of what is it, the hot pepper, procurement therapy. 


Are there any new, I'm probably not saying that right, but are there any new developments for secondary vestibulodynia besides I've seen Simbalta, Cabot Penn, Hematriptyly, Bapofen creams that are there because it feels still like there's not much to offer these folks than for that. 


Thank you. So I am working on it, so I work on the basic science and the only thing that, you know, I am not a medical provider, so I cannot provide medical opinions, but what we have learned is that there is a limit dysfunction in that area, and the fish oil, which we catalyze into all the different things that help prevent inflammation and discomfort are abnormal in that vestibule. 


So there is still, over the counter available, a product called SPM active, and there are many other fish oil things that seem to be really required properly. I'm not recommending that, I'm not a medical provider, but what we are working on is safety trials with a group in Canada called SPM Therapeutics are going to be starting a safety trial student, I hope, to test a cream that will contain one of these active ingredients, 


although they are natural products that your body makes. The problem is that you can't purify them. and end up quantity for natural products so that they didn't come with drugs. So they'd have to go through traditional, so they'd do drugs. 


But we're working on trying to propose some other things I've read. I've been working on another angle as well that's got a drug class that's already passed safety trials that could potentially be applied later on. 


But yeah, it's, we're working on new things. Sometimes I think that one patient could judge me and I'm not a doctor. I do tell them that one of the other things is that it's a horse having a good support network. 


It's really, really important for them and their family and members and people that they're in a relationship with. Okay, a couple of thoughts about this. First of all, BV typically is an inflammatory, like we look under, can you do something microscopy? 


Don't typically see white blood cells. And so, I like to think of the function as a symptom rather than a root cause. So while I'm really in that position, I would investigate to see, is it secondary or proliferative, or is it actually a combination of hormone associated with cibilodynia, like the paper tonic called the floor muscle dysfunction, and then with the, remember, if they are estrogen-deplete, 


then they're going to have decreased selective saliva, they need selective saliva, which is going to lead to more likelihood of overgrowth of bad bacteria, like arthurella and rutella. So there's a hormone that you can really investigate and make sure you have your proposed cibilodynia diagnosis correct, because it would be really unusual to get a growth of secondary or proliferative cibilodynia from the non-possible, 


but we usually hear it with yeast and with yeast infection treatments. Can I ask a panel that actually learned from the biologists and all of you? So, I've not gotten conscious. When I see BV recurring chronic, BV yeast always seems to migrate. 


It is a dysbiosis that is happening because something's not right, and often I find that the root is a hormonal cause or a control pill's period in that cause. Something is just not right. In my not thinking about this correctly, because the BV industry is $3 billion, and the internet is a buzz of this chronic BV, and I've never seen some of the chronic BV. 


In my practice, because you treat their dysbiosis and they get better at cohesus art, can you do a two-second thing for my everybody? Is that the only thing you know about that correctly? I think in many cases, you're absolutely correct, and if you want to kind of dig deep, what would like to... 


Think about it, we're talking about vaginal ecology, and vaginal ecology has to do with the... Bacteria and fungus and whatever other birds are living here, but also the substrate, which brings in a whole lot of BV. 


You don't have to put an estrogen sensation, you don't have to put a desploation of the tissue to feed like a bacillus and maintain not only the bacteria that's supposed to be there, but how the normal pH sets up the situation for our fingers, or our fingers supposed to be, I don't know. 


It is actually, it is, it is your idea, it is biosis. I want, before I pass the microphone, I want to comment on the downstream effect. I know you want to focus on the dysbiosis itself, but the inflammatory consequences, the what if you may be preparing a cycle of a natural cycle of inflammation, which is really what they are working on from that acid point of view. 


But to answer back to the original question of other things, there are other things. We don't have much data, and there are other in general that are both interested in mass cell overactivity, which you've been trying to maintain on time. 


Topical contract zone per human, either orally or topically, blue yaw, I've just recently started using a, this is going to sound a little funny, and a lotion for a bug bite contains a chemical called anperine, which is not only a first-generation or a mutine, but it blocks sodium-1.7 and 1.8 channels. 


I don't know if that's going to help, but you've got to try. Yeah, as a therapist, I can't be doing lab testing and setting the form of it, so I really talk to the patient. And in my experience, I get a lot of patients who haven't worked with somebody who has the sex been in my life, so a lot of times they'll come in and that's in their history. 


So it's asking, what's still me eating it, right? And a lot of times, it's still on the working field, though. And so they, they're, oh, I tried, you know, a topical estrogen, or my doctor tried this, but many times, they're still on the OCP. 


So are there still meat-eating factors that are present? I also have a background of a master's in integrated hormone nutrition, and there is some research to talk about, especially if it's chronic and recurrent, there is overgrowth in the gut. 


So I'll ask them about their gut symptoms, too, because they may need to go to the OGI and look at if there is a C-boat, because that's also a dyspidosis. And so it's, again, it's not oats. As small as the bacterial, overgrowth. 


So again, it's not so much that these are abnormal bacteria. They are part of our flora. They're not told being meat-eating bacteria, but they're in the wrong place, and they're overgrowth and imbalanced. 


And so asking them about more factors, especially, if they have had all the right things, they're on ET cream, and they're not on OCP. ruled that out but they actually don't tell you about their chronic death issues, that could be something to dig into further. 


And then if you repeat their cuter tests and it's really in that post-it or vestibule, but they're having seropane and they're working with PT, there's lots of different tools. One thing that I have used too when they're appropriate for dilators, but maybe they don't, like the graduated wants to set a degree, and certainly every time there is an expandable dilator, so maybe we use that to really help get the tissue to have that sustained stretch of the ocular cuter to be inserted. 


So those are some of the kind of key points of their own case. And it just makes me so happy that I don't care about this. I don't know how to recall that, but I get tenure in a few years. What agency did I want to enter into all of this? 


Again, as a woman selfless therapist, I don't have a whole lot to add. However, we just don't want to forget what happens to the results of all of this. I am openly excited to hear this relation of positions talking about, let's get to the cause of the problem rather than just treating it. 


To me, that is the key. The treatment cause I'm talking about in the doorway, as it is very exciting, to teach all my patients, which is a bit controversial, do you probably know what this legislation is supposed to be supposed to be for? 


And it takes all the position out here. And so, that's why. Just to follow up with everything, there's a question from Jacqueline Bondra, a physiatrist, who specializes in pelvic pain and knee work. So thank you, everyone. 


I'm going to be filing for myself as a physiatrist, I didn't train as a gynecologist. So my question is more to follow up to this. For patients who are on birth control, and I see a lot of young women with dysphonia, I'm not a gynecologist. 


I can't counsel them on mother birth controls, yada, yada, yada. I don't really do that. And I find a lot of gynecologists don't know about this, obviously. Is it safe to put those patients on a topical estrogen or testosterone to try to help, hopefully, in the vestibule? 


Yes. It is safe. And I, people, in such a low dose, it's not going to cause them birth control to not work or something like that. And we don't have much data to know who responds well with both together. 


I don't have that attitude over the years. For some patients, it's okay. And there's some patients that... as you have the birth control, it's just not going to sign up. You just can't override the birth control, my experience. 


I would argue to you, you can, and you can learn this, and this is your versus, which is correct, which is not your last, which you'll be out there about a year, I can only assume, because the reality is, I'm a urologist, and I don't want to say she's talking about system-informal therapy, right? 


We're at a point now where we can't be sideload anymore of, I don't do this, I don't examine all this, I don't look at, the gynecologist has to do that, it's not fair, but we're asking our gynecologist to take on. 


And so we have to do more in advocating and start just doing the work ourselves, in collaboration with our colleagues, and convincing them to do it. So I would argue, you actually, you can learn this, you learn how to do a lot of things in your residency, a lot of procedures, a lot of cool things. 


This is how you do it, you come here, collaborate and then you from your friends with everybody so you get the confidence of like how do I describe this? What's this thing again? And I can't wait to see you thrive in this field. 


Great. I would say for my gynecology friends out there, if you're doing at-home exams and evaluating things and carrying these, carrying these symptoms, make sure that you're examining the vestibule. 


Make sure you identify where the greater and lesser vestibular glands are. We used to call them the lessees and marvalins glands, right? The greater and lesser vestibular glands. When they are formulae complete, they are bright red and they are tender when you touch them with keto. 


You can touch a millimeter outside and it's not. They are very obvious when you start to see them. This is all pattern recognition, just like what we're doing to us. It's pattern recognition. If you look, you will find, which is always what Rachel says. 


So really look for this. This is the key here and so you really need to identify these patients. Now most of the patients will respond if you just put a top of the line and you can keep them on the heart control pills. 


Ideally you would take them off. That's not always feasible because blood control pills treat other things as well. Also, a very small minority of people on blood control pills have this. We see a lot of it so we think it happens like all the time, but as a general gynecologist we know that many people are on blood control pills and they're completely fine and it's a wonderful source for them, a source of birth control for them. 


I think that the thing we have to remember is in the beginning we only have blood control pills. Now we have a lot of different contraceptive options. We don't just need to rely on birth control by oral contraceptives or on contraceptive needs and our other treatments for different symptoms like endometriosis. 


So we just really need to argue on that as a gynecologist, I believe, as a gynecologist saying that. The other thing is if you find, sometimes I'll switch people to a more antigen-friendly progestin in the birth control pills, like a leave-in industrial. 


So that's another thing you can do, is you can switch to a different type of birth control, or you can use something like SWIN, or like a progesterin-only option as well. Hi. Good morning. My name is Megan Schottlall. 


I'm a physician-assisted neurology in Knoxville, Tennessee. I have two questions. One is probably a brief answer, but for lichensclerosis, are you requiring a biopsy, or are you treating basic and clinical findings? 


Okay. So, according to the guidelines, you do not need to do a biopsy, to diagnose lichensclerosis. Yes, a biopsy will... should definitively diagnose lycosclerosis if it is active. If lycosclerosis is in remission and we're not seeing the texture changes with the lycification, you may see subtle signs or you may not. 


So, lycosclerosis comes, it comes down to a clinical diagnosis. As a specialist, seeing lycosclerosis multiple times a day, I would only biopsy if I believe that there's a cancer or a VIN or a pre-cancer. 


If there's mixed conditions, like the lycosupplex product is on top of a lycosclerosis or a mixed, like a planus-lycosclerosis picture, or if somebody needs a biopsy to get the care that they need. I have a lot of Canadian patients that need the gold ticket of the biopsy, unfortunately, to get back here when they go back to their country. 


And so, the other reason for biopsy is if you are in doubt, right, and that's gonna change depending on the amount of experience that you have, right? So, if you are in doubt, it is never wrong to biopsy and then talk to your dermatologist and then put it together with a clinical fiction. 


Thank you. My second question is regarding a patient of mine who I suspect has some type of arousal disorder with days after intercourse, prolonged pain, swelling, increased vaginal discharge, which she thinks is yeast or BV every time. 


And we swap her and her vaginal flora is, I mean, all problematic, not overgrown, looks great, but she panics every time. Is there something imaging-wise that I need to be doing to look for a vascular issue, or is this probably remotely remediated? 


Where can I go with her from here? She's kind of like this, don't you? She wants to be one of the two. So, one of the math is... working on this last year or so, it is the best similar side of things. 


And I think probably this is where it is, which include obstruction, beginner, spec worker, and or public congestion. Something I found in some of the literature in working in the peak IGP side of things is both the coil difference, which are very, very suggested, especially if, well, they can have a combination of things going on. 


But what I've been seeing is in those patients, I do not have pain with intercourse, and if there is no stability, I may present that way. And looking into that, I would say, do not pull it out. We may not do that. 


But I think we really overlook those in our pursuit of getting better and looking into the research and going back to patients I've had that have been that way and reconnecting with them, some of them have gone on. 


It's probably at least 10 people have all had those findings, even in imaging that was previously done and looked at. And so I would just suggest, I can't say it's for sure that, but I would not overlook that in a med center, which is in Colorado, I've been working with a percentage of patients too. 


They actually have providers that are licensed in every state to look at imaging, what imaging will do to a health and then if they suggest they'll come and are an MRA physician, I wouldn't speak to that. 


But what I've seen is initially we'll do a CT diagram and it's not sufficient. And so we'll do a few providers and I've been working with specific imaging for that first and then lead to, for gold standard is a videography with ID 47 to really look at it because some people can't present and it's not actually obstructed, it's just a positioning, but I would say post-poyo and post-poyo total pain, 


especially the spine, and if it's more on the left side, go to the right, they're taking too much more significance. Their post-pays are present in only about 20 to 40%. So I wouldn't pull that out if they don't have that, but that's where the research is looking at. 


So it's two things that we're proud to send to Colorado to the med center because I mean, they're either licensed in every state in the future. And so thank you all for that. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. 


And if you were to vote, as Jennifer said, if you were to vote, review the imaging, making it go in virtually any database and pull the imaging from Colorado, look at it and think about it yesterday or not. 


Thank you very much for the panel, as usual. I just have a quick question on site, for like these vaginal suits. Now I live in the BC area, but everybody thinks they have something or the other, they Google it. 


researched it and so they're like we need to be treated for site-like vaginosis and I write up about it but I don't think it's clear but I want to get your thoughts and if there's any treatment. This is a patient that's recurrent you know she's been treated for TB, she just keeps getting there's no some people feel very strongly that it doesn't exist, some people feel very very strongly that 80% of their country has it. 


So that's where we stand by basically what we're doing. But basically the idea of a facility vaginosis is that there's an overgrowth of lactobacilli and lactobacilli produce lactic acid and hydrogroxide, right, which means the weather this morning. 


We're going to take a look at the weather this morning. vagina acidic, which is typically what we want, the people that believe in senolytic vaginosis, what they argue is that the vagina becomes too acidic and it creates almost like a sunburn of the mucosa of the vagina, especially the vestibule, because that's where a lot of them are going inside, and then that causes the burning and discomfort and the itching, 


and the symptoms that people have, and they typically have a white, almost like a wet tissue paper discharging as well, okay. Don't remember, with vagina, with vaginal dysbiosis, these things can change. 


It's not an honor or nothing, right, and so we want to optimize the ingredients that go in, because the vagina is a self-cleaning oven, right, all my gynecologists have heard that before, and so we want to maintain the processes that allow you to self-cleave, so we're not in there stroking and cleaning it, right, and so the people approaches to it who think that this is what's going on. 


We can make the, we can make the area more basic, right, so one thing that the man part is using, and we consider that, so sodium bicarbonate, whether that be in a, in a, a paste that you made or a six bath, since that is easy to get started, it's a low level, easy to get in, but they can try, see if it makes it feel better in the vestibule, if so, they can do a capsule of vaginal suppository, these are all like, 


low stakes things that you can try, if you're concerned that this is the case, and then the other thing is lentil medicine, I've got to open up my simple pill, after this is alive, so you could do that, it's kind of good, because it kind of kills something like VBAV, it's kind of low on my head, so that's another possibility, but this is a controversial violence. 


And augmentant is one of them, I read, but I've never given augment, one of some paper I don't know, read or not, but, you know, it's kind of, I don't want to start giving antibiotics, augmentant for someone that I love. 


I think we have to remember, risk it. And then the issue with augmented is that it's when you have consequences as well, and so I would try to let you think about making more research in that area, but I would be careful with that. 


Thank you so much. Hello, I'm Nina. I'm from Portland, Oregon. I'm a gift land parent. So I went to your fall course in 2022 and I feel like you learned so much about vestibulodymia and it was amazing and it's really changed my practice and feel more confident with that. 


I had a couple of patients like in the last year or two with pain in the labia majora and like a couple of them had also pain in the vestibule and at least one did not. It was like exclusively labia majora normal exam, like totally normal. 


Underwear, couldn't even wear underwear. I, she had some relief from gabapentin, but it made her too drowsy. That was just one patient though, but I've had a couple and I've ended up being like pretty perplexed with these people. 


So I just wondered if you could speak at all on pain in the lady of Majora. Thank you. Don't think John has any thoughts. What I would say is, you know, this is where you can undersize, detect, and hack. 


And we use this idea of region-based therapy of really trying, that's bi-diabetes, and trying to understand what is here, right? What is actually hurting? Is this a tissue? Is this a skippling roll? Is this a nerve problem? 


And it's on both sides. And my brain says, there's no way she's got a bilateral, without an obvious history reason, there really doesn't make sense that she's got a bilateral peripheral nerve injury. 


And so it's working and then, you know, sort of doing a pelvic floor exam, right? It's a pelvic floor globally on paper to initiate fire. You know, so can you find the lesion? Can you find where else it hurts and then use your brain to say what lives here? 


Is this a tissue? Is it muscle? Is it nerves? Is there a hormonal reason? Is there a spine reason? Is, you know, instead of, again, not to say you throw a gap, a pentaset and it's a trial, and it's band-aid to see does it get better, but really trying to understand where could this problem lie? 


And that's where bilateral labia majora pain makes me think of the pelvic floor. It makes me think, you know, the pelvic floor is not speaking to me. That would be surprising. And then I really think nerve issues. 


And then where's the nerve? That is the central connection to the bilateral labia majora wall. I don't know, but I actually text her called John Bogle to say, you know, or on the, which, that's where, you know, lumbar spine, you know, sort of, you know, this is where my physiatrist and the pain doctors really become help. 


I think, thoughts tonight? I really spent some time to ask about is there a constant level of pain, which a lot of times there is, but also what makes it worse and what makes it better? Because really helping you know that can help you identify also some of the different structures in that which makes assessment. 


I really like the way that Rachel teed that up in terms of stratifying in between because we're kind of in the algorithm of the tissue looks normal. So we think about muscle and our issues. The first place to go is to do a whole train, pelvic health PT, to do that evaluation. 


I would also say for your own diagnostic skills, I'm a big advocate of learning at least a portion of what your pelvic health PT colleagues do. so that you can do your own physical exam and at least get an idea, you know what, this kind of feels like, tastes like, smells like muscle. 


So I have one patient, and I'm proud of all the services we've experienced, who had right away with me, and who they would use us to have. I found that I can recreate it by vocalizing reviews. On the physical therapy exam, or last year's, the round leg, which is the bottom of the wall thing, comes down through, the knee won't come out, and either is in the leg or in the joint. 


And by vocalizing your fingers in the other direction, therefore, vocalizing your tooth or your ovaries all this way, I was able to police attention on that round leg and the pain stop. Weird, odd case, but that's just something else that we may possibly possible. 


That was the science guy there, that's me. Good morning, I'm Anissa, I'm a general gynecologist here in Atlanta. I attended the fall course in 2023, and since then I have been routinely doing the stipular exams. 


And so I have two questions. One, when I am examining the vestibule, you were saying I should directly put the Q-tip on the upper vestibular glands? Yes, okay. And number two, I do routinely try to retract the prepuce of the clitoris, and I feel like I see a great deal of adhesions or complete fibrosis where I can't move it at all. 


But when I question, they are not reporting symptoms. So my question is, is it always pathological if there's fibrosis? So if they are not reporting any symptoms, is it fine to just leave it as is? Okay, we have a fair read. 


So this is fair, more research as we did, and we can't go around icing every clitoris, because we don't have an operation with us, because it's 23% of all people have adhesions. And so we're still learning. 


So if you're interested in getting into this for the first time, don't start blessing people who have no complaints or no problems. Education is so important, right? Giving the patients the knowledge. 


So I wouldn't hide it from them if you're... No, I tell them, but I think that it's also this balance of like, I don't want to make them feel like something is wrong with them if it is not bothering them. 


The way I do it is I said, you know, I'm going to show the mirror, I'm saying, oh, you have plural occasions, you know, actually 23% of all people have this, science is completely ignored, and I can't wait to tell you about the research that we've done on this subject. 


I'll be really cool about this on our website, I'm going to talk to you about what it means, our research, and then our research is replicated by Joel Pratt, which is the coolest thing ever, you should stay next to me. 


When your friends replicate research, it's like the coolest thing ever, friends replicate research. So this idea of, it improves, when you buy these infusions, it may have pain, it improves it up to 70%, it's not more people's pain. 


And then arousal, orgasm, satisfaction, you're looking at a 60 to 50% improvement. Now, a patient who have no symptoms at all, do I have patients who then come to me and say, I want the license, I want to be a pioneer, I want to get part of the data and see what happens? 


We see people get like, wow, my orgasm is easier, I'm quicker, I can use my hand now, I think the collaborator, my partner is on drugs now, you know, we do see that happening. But no, it's not, I don't suggest they get a license, it's more of an education thing of here's the data, and then empowering all of you to be more, look at that, you're looking, you're finding it, you're like, wow, I see this, 


it's everywhere, and it's everywhere, so that's the reality. So, first of all, most people are not going to come into your office and say, hey, doc, I have clitoral pain, or I have clitoral pain when my partner, when I have receptive oral sex, or what have you, there's just not going to be with that. 


And so, I'm sorry, but the reality is, this one's an opportunity, right? So, if you see it, you can tell them and say, this happens, you know, almost one fourth of what it is. what we're finding, something we're still trying to understand, but tell me, you know, do you have any pain of the clitoris? 


Do you have any clitoral pain? And I have read the book you took right along with the adhesions, and the adhesions I, and see, because sometimes what you'll find is when you read it right along with the adhesion, they actually have pain at the adhesion, and when you touch the plate, the clitoris itself is sensitive, but it's not painful. 


So you really want to identify what is an actual issue and what is not, and then they have to determine how far they want to take it, but at least you plan it that way. Okay, it's not just me. I'm not the only one in the world that doesn't like the receptive world, or stimulation, or what have you, because it makes you feel uncomfortable, right? 


You validate that for them, and then you can lead them to resources to learn who you are. Jill and I, sorry, Jill and I use the example all the time of life. It's like an eyelash in your eye, or like a big sand in your eye. 


It's, it's, it's, it's irritating. So this is an erection, right? Yeah, it is. If you get an erection, you're aroused and you feel uncomfortable, you say, oh, I don't like it when you touch me there. 


Hey, I get the vibrator. I'm going to leave you there with a drawer. I go, I can't have a drawer. The clitoris is too sensitive. We have this idea that I say the clitoris should be stable. We don't think it's too sensitive. 


How do we ever set that up on a penis? If we ever set the sail away from a penis, it's too sensitive. I have people with an unbelievable peon pain that they actually can't tolerate. It is not an abnormal thing. 


I think, where do we get that from? If the clitoris is too sensitive that you can't actually go near it, could it be that 23% of people have melanitis and irritation from keratin pearls? Just following on that really quickly from a functional perspective, if you have those who have clitoral seizures, they're saying, now my sex isn't really good. 


I can't look into my eyes when you know this. The only place you can have orgasm, I'm here to tell you that the entire clitoris is sensitive to touch with arousal. You don't just have to go with the glands. 


You can use your finger. You can use the vibrator all along. And with this version right over the cutie synthesis, this is where the clitoris nerves are. All of this with arousal gets sensitive. This is like the boy part. 


We also have a similar dose that are very, very, very sensitive to touch. And with full arousal, men and men, shirts and gold places. Okay, so just don't forget that there's more than just good lines that need to be told. 


Well, I was actually thinking about when I had done some work that people had done with genital failure. And they were very concerned that they would not be able to have orgasm. And so they did, before I ever said anyone's got just the vibrators. 


And many found that they were able to have orgasm. So that's just my thought. I would actually have a question about thymosis though, because I know if it's for some of the chemists in our office, they're a little different from a steroid being to try and get it to become more flexible. 


Is that something you have ever did with someone with thymolinescence? So, I think this brings up an important question, and it's to find why they have thymolinescence. So, of course, they can have thymolinescence because they have an inflammatory, auto-immune, vulvar thymitosis, like thysparosis, or the like thymus, and as you can see, if it is an inflammatory cause, then in the end, something like a steroid, 


which is the anti-inflammatory, is going to help, but we also see this with the display of an inflammatory vaginitis, which is an inflammatory condition. You see this with the contracture fee. So there's different causes potentially of clitoral adhesions and we're starting to see where those are, but we don't, we're right in the forefront of that, we're trying to determine what they are, because if we can determine what they are, 


then when we do a licensed procedure, we can ensure that they have a flow over the occurrence rate because we are addressing the root cause of recognition. I also kind of feel that obviously people who seek your care are having a problem, you know, so they're a subset. 


But how can we, like in, like, cause we're on first line, right, I'm seeing them, they may not, they may develop something in the future, like, how can we help, how can we sort some of those out? Oh, Nargi, you're here, you're not first line, and more, welcome to the second line. 


Welcome. We're happy to have you. So the reality is, you're aware of it, you're talking about it, you're asking questions, you're curious, which is the most incredible, amazing, that's literally the battle. 


And so I think you giving, so my theory is that we give people the anatomy, the physiology, the toolbox of what we know, what we don't know, and you say here's the story, we make fabulous decisions on what they want to do, fabulous, like truly, people read, if you go on my website, there's a lot of folks who have put a lot of attention, and it has been read 25,000 times the last time I checked, because I get an email every day from Europe, 


who doesn't like specific patients in Europe, who does it even everywhere, and I have no answer for them, right? And I'm like, yeah, if I'm a urologist with HEMA staff, then that's literally not challenging. 


Well, how can we, as general OBGYNs, learn this too? So, yeah, so it's coming this way, that we're doing, we're here, we're here, have you ever done any more circumcision? Thousands of times. Yeah. You can do a lot of specific patients, permission granted to you. 


Yeah, so, it's, it's, it's, it's... If you can, if you have eye crusties and you pull them open with your hands and take out all the eye crusties, that is the license of a patient. This is, this is not distracting. 


We're going to need to be proctored 400,000 times instead of it. Go ahead. Please, patient. I think it's hopefully here, on the national perspective, because we, you know, we do this too, and the patients take care very differently. 


So I think you're, I mean, that's about you. Because you get, you get emails from patients. So you went, you went on the website with the number one co-relation article? That one. So it existed first. 


Oh, it was nothing. I have a couple of things from the patient side. One is, thank you for being careful about your language. Like we heard when we were talking about coronavirus. It makes a big difference, the way you present it. 


And so I really appreciate that, and that, to just be conscious of that. The other thing I was thinking is, Don't be surprised if they're initial answer when you ask them to have a problem, you have pain to know. 


Because there's so many things you do not realize that you're adapting to live in your body. They're not going to realize, oh, yeah, I'm going to have to wait. I have to go to some spot. You know what I'm saying? 


That particular spot occurs, so I just go to a different angle. And I never thought about that as something I'm going to adapt and get more pain. So once you point it out, don't be surprised if months later, they follow what I'm actually doing. 


That does their right to choose not to do that. They just think that the pain is normal. Yeah, they just think that the pain is off. They think all this stuff is happening to everyone. All right, thank you all very much. 


I just wanted to ask a little bit of what we're thinking about, what is clitoral sensitivity normal? And I think that's a really good question. I think we want to ultimately think about, under what conditions is it two-cent, two-cent or uncomfortable? 


Certainly, if someone is not aroused, this is sensitive tissue. This is nerve tissue. So we also want to make sure that someone is getting added to the arousal before stimulating. And so I guess I have a question, where I think in your office, if people are showing their eyebrows skates, you know, probably potentially the least arousing situation unless they get to like medical, you know, the fact that they're a king, 


right? But, you know, otherwise, I guess I wonder, would it be abnormal to have someone do a test on the thoracic touch in a really sensitive area when someone's not aroused? To me, that seems like there's a fact that might be normal. 


I hear what you're saying. It's something that I thought about. I'm pretty sure that we've all thought about. I can tell you in practice, though, because we do the same systematic exam every single time. 


It doesn't tend to bore out. because when we touch the footer, it's getting sensitive, but it's not painful. And then a small subset will have a new condition. So it doesn't seem to work out. But it is something that we shouldn't be cognizant of and cautious at all, because it makes sense. 


So I don't have a good answer, but I can say that we don't want it in that way. We should say that. And I also think that there, a lot of people don't think about the difference between pain and sensitivity or discomfort. 


So a lot of people may not have the language for what they're experiencing. So I think that's also. That's true. And we also, we differentiate between those two things when we're doing the exam to ensure that we're capturing the body's symptoms. 


But again, language is so very important. Over 10,000 years of using. Why don't we take 10 days? Yeah, it's amazing the vertices. So you have people who say, I almost get there, I almost get there, and then it starts to hurt. 


OK, so Kristy got very featured on it. How good did you go again? So like I totally, like hormone-mediated vestibulodynia. I think I get that. But it's very different. If you're talking about a post-menopausal female or a pre-menopausal female. 


Totally get, like if you're on birth control, like you know, that, that, you get all that. Especially like if you're lactating or pregnancy or whatever. But I've had a couple of patients that have gotten what we think because everybody thinks they have a yeast infection and they go get something and then it wasn't the latest infection. 


But a couple of patients that have had some rip or in-case infection, they thought, or it was UTI or something. And now they examine exactly like my post-menopausal, like the entire vestibule hurts. But it was a little like chronic, like this was like one thing that she just shot done with antibiotics and then they followed. 


But now, like after sex, it's so painful. And on exam, they're completely, like how does one event cause this? And how do you tweak it? I think you gave the answer right there. I think about now that we, people, so there's secondary inflammatory sort of conditions. 


So what caused that inflammation? We've seen that all the time. Sort of they, they are okay, okay, okay, they get UTI to fall off the cliff. And so the question, they get a yeast infection and they put something topical from the CVS on and they fall off the cliff. 


And so monostat is the, many people say, the most evil thing in the world, but it's been perhaps those normal reaction. This particular. patient is a physician herself, so gave herself ducks in a can and gave herself, so there was nothing topical. 


Yes, nothing topical. So how old? She is 40 and four years past pregnancy, or four years past lactation stopping, husband has a vasectomy, no other medical. So how old are you guys, right? So I've been hearing that I'm probably should not be bored of this situation. 


Yes, she's having like crazy hot flashes. Yes. But right before only at the very end of that luteal thing? Yes, so because... So it's like... And it's a regular pregnancy. So if you say that in your question, this is paranoid about one-on-one, so when her estrogen is the lowest, right? 


That's right, exactly. And this doesn't just happen, because that's when the dysbiosis occurs, and so it's a green ground for the wrong bacteria, and then she takes the medicine, which kills some things, but not other things, so there's over, and then she takes a giant load of basic material and see if it's so basic. 


Like, so you get SEMA issues to have a vagina relation inside of her. So that adds to more basicness when the vagina wants to be acidic. And to the point of the vagina, we need to re-burn the vagina. 


This self-cleaning oven thing only applies when there are hormones involved. Like, if there are no hormones, it does not self-clean, actually. So, and, it's only if you take your hormone or your huge vagina. 


This is self-cleaning oven. So, I think the answer for her is into herself every day. On Sunday, she has sex, but no, so she has hormones. And she may need systemic hormones. But then, with vocal hormones, with estrogen or PGA, they give it two to three months. 


And to do some estrogen testosterone on that vestibule. So, I found with intros, though, I mean, I love it. But, and this is my personal menopausal women. Like, until you kind of, because I feel like there's something to be said about taking that finger and really putting it all around that vestibule and stuff like that. 


Like, the intros, they're not able to really get that little... So, there's one paper, or one that's published on this, that the intros can't help the vestibule. And, but I am not patient enough to wait for that to happen. 


So, I'm a, I know the bones. Okay, what am I afraid of? I'm certain nothing in this situation. So, so, if you do, and that should happen twice a week, and that should be testosterone. They run along the vestibule every day. 


That's a great upper option. The front's not in the vagina, which means the vagina to be fully acidic to not to help that dysbiosis. You're going to fix her. It's so exciting that this position is going to be all the way better. 


She's concerned that she has a C. I mean, she's a doctor. So, like, she's got all this stuff in her hand. It's not that serious. She's going to be great. And then, can I just ask one more question just about the vagina, the dysbiosis, and all that? 


Well, before we go on to that, I just want to add one, please share. The other thing is when everything is so irritating, and she's getting better and better. cultures back and she's like, what's going on? 


This is negative, and that's negative, and it continues, it continues, it continues. Guess what happens to those muscles, right? Those muscles start to taint, and then when the muscles start to taint, we have blood flow that goes through the muscles to that lower mind tissue of the vestibule. 


That vestibule is getting less blood flow. What is the blood carrying? It carries oxygen in the lungs, nutrients from the gut and hormones from the ovaries, right? So then that tissue is becoming more fragile, breaking down. 


And it's just, it becomes a pain cycle. So when it gets to that point, I would need to be departmental on the vestibular and the estrogen and the vagina. We need to evaluate her muscle as well and we may need to evaluate her weight. 


You mentioned having an affinity for running the medication into the vestibular and the gentleman like Antimicrobial Bivin. Also, you can compound DHEA on a toggle if you don't want any of this to grow soon. 


Okay. But you guys were talking about the whole mass cell thing too and like, I don't know, like I asked more questions on my patients than give them answers because like it's, we're all connected. She's thinking of like this weird egg signal type that lets you see it. 


I'm a dermatologist right now but we have her eyes and then she, like there has to be something smaller to live for them, right? The hormone of course that's coming out is all gonna cover pareidone cause and that might actually be one such thing. 


And so really you should take that course because it is shocking how much skin conditions in clinical results can occur as a neurologist with a nice patch and the oral progesterone and so it really is. 


You asking the questions and that might be answers. We assume the best doctor in the world and it's better than 99.9% of your colleagues. So keep doing that and show up to these meetings and get us all a sensation. 


Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Sorry, sorry. I just want to thank Kristy for her mind. She's telling us that I started early and I have to say, I think that's a big program. It's really amazing to see your products. 


There are people who are watching our videos in person and we all learn so much. So thank you. Thank you for this. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I can't ask you a question because I'm trying to be selective because there is so many questions. 


Sorry, did you hear me? Yeah I was. What do you want me to? Oh, just ask Dr. Mitchell. Oh, no problem. One question I quickly want to ask is for. Sorry. Sorry. Yeah, there it is. 
