

It's wish that that complement our work and so we're really honored to have such an interdisciplinary and international panel with us in the morning so I'm just going to go down one by one who is here with us. 


Sally is here as we know is the president-elect of This Wish. She is an OEGYN in Cleveland, Ohio to make her honor most of us and is here representing the Metaphos Society to discuss their strategic initiatives and female sexual health workmen this year. 


Manuel Dini is here all the way from Italy. He is an endrologist in Rome who is representing the European Society for Sexual Medicine and joint-disciplinary work projects in female sexual health. Gerald Brock is a distinguished urologist from Canada who is an incoming president of the International Society for Sexual Medicine so we are an affiliate of the International Society for Sexual Medicine who here is a member of both His Wish and I do that. 


Many people were very happy to have you so I guess I said I think it's been a wonderful partner. We have His Wish in the international community focusing on male and female sexual health and everybody in between. 


It's sort of a delight that this is a joint meeting and we have the current president and the president-elect. And then everyone here is familiar with the Degnosi. She is a distinguished criminologist from the University of Florence and our current president of His Wish. 


So without further ado I will present one by one. Thank you everyone. Thank you Chani for the presentation. So this is the first of the three societies that I have been meeting and how our Congress is very excited about that. 


As you already know we have a scientific plan in which we shall be leading to also to make this relationship with our society in order to strengthen. and how, of course, and also to have a common view of how to develop the MSXO Health, more fashion care, and also community-decaded for the MSXO Health all over the world. 


So it's a great part of what we need to introduce this strategic plan that we have. We have a vision that from a result is a trimester study for everybody, and also to lead, innovate, and promote our inter-disciplined care for aging, science, fashion, care, and community. 


So in between that, we need more and more interactions with our society, and also to have a common, also very strategic, actions for the future. So the sense of this is in positive ways to try to figure out how we can collaborate in the future, and try in some way to brighten the stone and a very long collaboration for our society in the future here. 


So, we have done a lot of this library. I will show you this during my presentation and at the beginning during the ceremony. And we also developed all the stuff up together with the ISSM and also considering some very important collaboration that we have in the center part of the world. 


We have this Congress even by also the yet number and we share some symposium during the ISSM for you to take several parts of the world. But actually, we would like to have this in mind and how our society is mainly and have a very strong educational history and also we have a very strong educational program and educational projects that we decided to grow also and we're talking to presidents but also online in order to make this project more available also inside the mass. 


And we will be very happy to share with all your members in your society all this course, in order to have more and more international people that are trying to be close with our society and maybe become a member of our society. 


So for example, we just we have to start in a very short, short, very important course that we will be happy till March 2026. And this course will be covering many issues related to puberty, pregnancy, gender of remission, for immunobosap, immunobosap, antigens, cancer. 


So it's a very long educational project that is related to focus on hormone. was in an aspect of this space of women's life. But we decided to have also this internationally. So we have two examples here of what we have done in the past. 


They were working very successfully. We have to continue, as I said, we may be joining also the other society to develop such projects in the future, in different parts of the world. And also to use some funds that we have some residents can collect and some financial support to make this educational program more stable and sustainable in the future. 


So we have also to make the other society be aware that we are providing the science that we have. Thank you. trying to interrescize with patient's care, thinking about some of the urgent issues that has been covered by, for example, the International Association for Sexual Medicine. 


We have a process of care, considered a process of care of pain, of testosterone treatment, of organs, and arousal in the shoulder of the guideline. So finally, we have to consider that everything that we now are trying to hand your opinion and your vision about your perspective in your society, about how you in your society are trying to develop in the future in this field, and now we can collaborate to work with each other. 


Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. So, I don't know if there's any slides. There we go. So, yes, I might be curious that I have a little bit of an issue-ish and I think for the medical society, I feel like I had dinner with Lisa Larkin and most of the board of trustees at the last medical society, and I felt like everybody was like, who's going to present an issue-ish and everyone put their finger to their nose, 


and I didn't see this. So that's why I'm doing this. I'm the committee of past chair of the education committee for the medical society, and actually all of the board of trustees have their retreat this weekend, so Claudia Suarez, who is the president now, is unable to attend, and you've got Cheryl Canford, who then also came coming, so this is why I have the co-chair because anybody, Cheryl, Cheryl actually wanted to be a comedian, 


and so everyone of her talks, if you pay attention, she has several of these memes and jokes in them, but I wanted to honor Cheryl because she's unable to attend today. So I thought I would just in a general sense go over some of the missions and projects that the Menopause Society has and some of the specific collaborations that they're dealing with in SHWISH. 


So in general, the Menopause Society is very, very focused on education, so education for patients, education to help professionals bring that information to their patients in the office. The purpose here, as I said, is we want to align our strategic projects so that we can move this field forward. 


So I have some of our potential opportunities so we can work with having symposiums, we can have educational courses at the joint conferences, offer training programs for the next generation, and enhance our current skills, and maybe utilize some of our patient resources together so that we can combine forces. 


One of the projects that we are working on currently, I think this is one of them, at Kingsburg has been asked to do a sex 101 course for the Holocaust Society. So for anybody who has any of those in training, or whether there's colleagues that are interested in getting a little taste of sexual medicine, this will be at the Holocaust Society meeting that is in Orlando, I guess October 21st, the 25th of June. 


But it is a half day pre-course for the annual meeting, and Sheryl's been had pretty much exclusively issue-ish fellows or issue-ish experts that are speaking at this, giving it a general sense. It's kind of a teaser for our fall course, for the issue-ish fall course. 


So something again that would be helpful for those who are in training or colleagues who are wanting to get a little taste of sex medicine. Another thing that all of our organizations can collaborate on is research. 


So this is a great opportunity to share the expertise of the hundreds and thousands of people all over the world that are experts in the field of menopause and sexual medicine. So things that we do work on are these physician statements, guidelines, maybe we can share our databases to really build more robust studies. 


One of the things that issue-ish is currently working on is we are working with, and I'm gonna call it NAMS because I've always been just rolls out the tongue a little easier, but we are redoing or updating the GSM and for women with or at high risk, it's a tongue twister for this one, but the women at high risk for breast cancer, and this time we've invited the National Comprehensive Cancer Network to help with these guidelines. 


So that is spearheaded by Gerald Klain, who also cannot be here. And that we're hoping to have out this fall. Another area is advocacy. So this is a really cool project. I'm one of Stephanie Fabian's babies here. 


So we know that 10% of the menopause women leave the workforce, right? This impacts, at least for the U.S. economy, $1.8 billion a year. Huge deficit, right? So women are feeling inadequate, the brain fog. 


They are feeling, because they're just not feeling that they have the support that they need in the workforce. This is a project that was geared towards helping employers provide that support and environment that will help these women stay in the workforce. 


And we all know that a diverse team really contributes to the workforce in a much better impactful way. And so having the older stage within. staying and mentor our younger upcoming stars in the workforce is a really important value. 


And so this project is geared at helping the employers retain those menopausal women. I have some of the links here, but the website actually has all kinds of tips. This is a wonderful tool that we can help disperse to really keep our menopausal women in the workforce and empower not just the women, but the community and society. 


And then lastly, this is just a summary of how our collaborative efforts can really synergistically move sexual medicine forward. So by sharing our expertise, we can enhance the reach that we have. We can reach more of an audience. 


We can reach more people. We can have more advocacy and patient education, really just optimizing our resources so that we are using our financials in a better and more efficient way. And I didn't have an opportunity, but I don't think I have anything else. 


All right. Now it is time for Europe, the European Society of Sexual Medicine. And I am already a lady. And just to remember what Europe missed, the story, the bitumological story, it was a kind of rape, actually, because Europe was a very beautiful girl. 


And the king of the gods, they also fell in love with her. And he just found himself in a beautiful white woman. but they did something, so at the end of the story she has been raped, and she has three children, Minos, Erkomante and Sarpadonta. 


But what is interesting is what means in Greek the name of Europe. It is very interesting because the real meaning is brown or beautiful, cave. So what is the broad basis of the European Society of Sexual Medicine? 


It is related, of course, to research, to the treatment, to the sexual health coming from this little part of the world. In the European Society we have scientists devoted to increase knowledge and producing scientific papers as well as newsletter. 


Of course, the major aim of the SSM is education and science in the field of sex and medicine. And this was realized by several educational programs. And the development criteria for our certification in sex and medicine and in sexology. 


In the next session, I will have more time to talk about the educational efforts of the youth on this exercise. And those are the milestones of the society in the years. The educational efforts of the society are based on the so-called Wunderfist School of Sex and Medicine, which is for you seeing a basic course, an advanced course, in order to pass the exam. 


Again, I will tell you more detail in the session. Also, we do have a surgical academy, which is also working well in order to train surgeons, and basically biologists, and for not so many gynecologists here. 


We also are looking forward for treatment, which is going to be established with the International Society for Sexual Medicine, in particular the university. The SSM University, in order to share the educational efforts between the International and the Odeo Society. 


And I think, Mr. President, that would be quite an interesting task. But what about female sexual discussions? I would particularly rather to talk about the last project, which has been dedicated attention to the efforts of Elisa Madriak-Masiore. 


She is coming from the little industry kitchen in Florence. And this initiative is dedicated to the future. She has been adopted by the, also been adopted by the zombie friend from the 1967. Again, in Budapest, Budapest is quite a cheap, so this is the reason why Ipon is always going there. 


And we have a political part of today's, and then in centers of excellence, the practical part for the LucasArts. The aim is to improve the ability and the knowledge and skills set into the role of the use of this technique, basically, the janitorial sound as a support for the diagnosis and the management of immune sexual dysfunction, including, of course, arousal disorders, organ disorders, and sexual pain. 


This is the faculty, and the two centers I mentioned are so far in Italy, just in Italy, in Florence, of course. This is a category for female sexual and Spanish only in my country. And also we have another one, which is also working well for professional development in Naples. 


And this is the FFT, but I just want to highlight that everything is done because of the enthusiastic work of Elisa Masegoli from Florence. We have another edition in 23 with seven participants from several countries. 


Also from, particularly from China too, because I'm working a lot with Chinese university institutions. And the second edition, which is ongoing, is of the 10 participants, which are also coming outside the continent, from India to Indonesia and Thailand, and some European countries, Bulgaria, Italy, Romania and Sweden. 


Those are just seven representations of what is done during the school, the use of the clitoris to ascend, or the study of the vascular function of the clitoris. And those are the pictures. I just wanted to remember that we are opening for the third edition on this month, actually, because today is March 1st. 


So the online registration, I think, is going to start in the next few days. And those are the pictures of the faculty in the last two years. Just the final slide, regarding the future perspective of this program, which is particularly unique and interesting. 


The title of the session is about the strategy of projects and programs of the Masegoli. and wanted to share from the next years, I think that the one issue very important is to extend the number of training centres also outside the continent because the possibility to have students cannot go up more than 10 students for opportunities at the university. 


So at the moment we can handle 20 students no more, but the system we think that in the future this school can have more success and it will be important to satisfy centres also outside Europe, more in Europe and also outside the continent. 


The second point I think is very very important also to involve the school into the agreement between the ISSM and the semi-university. in particular because the practical skills are very important part of course of the education, it's not the education in sexual medicine, it's not just a theoretical. 


And finally I think it's very very important and this is my last issue to create a new partnership with the society, with the exposure and I think that this is where we are living choice and for who are increase of knowledge and in order to facilitate our knowledge regarding female sexual interaction. 


Thank you very much for your attention. Okay, let me just tell you I had less than five minutes. Well, I kind of anticipated it because we went the purple last, so I had no slides, which should help all of you focus on what the purpose of this session was supposed to be. 


It was supposed to be strategic projects and I can't think of a better topic for us as ISSM and Ishwish which has incredible energy and a young population of membership to get more involved and you know when we think about ISSM and what we are and Ishwish what you are, it is a non-dependent collaboration I think we need to do. 


And I think you know in order to figure out where we're going I think we need to think a little bit about where we've been and the collaboration we've had so far with Ishwish at ISSM, whether it's the International Consensus Conference that happened at an opportunity grid where Ishwish was a major partner, a major contributor to financial and content markets or ongoing projects where they are helping us develop a really... 


important part of our scientific programs globally, so we really do have a major female sexual dysfunction presence. I can tell you that at ISSN we really value all of you, and this meeting is an example of why we do. 


We want to continue supporting education. Over the last five years, on average, annual grants of more than $250,000 from ISSN have been distributed among various regionally limited societies and Ishwish, and you know, you just heard Manuelle talk about ISSN, BSSM, the university, and all of these things that were collaborating. 


We're kind of unique in the same way that you are at ISSN. We don't have a geography, and we'd like to be international, be everywhere, in the same way that I think as you mature, we'll become more global. 


So it only makes sense that our collaboration, Mr. Teacher's standpoint, I think for ISSN, and obviously you are going to decide that. But why don't you use us, use our activities internationally, use our meetings to have workshops. 


Linda talked about the one you can buy that was fantastic. The Vietnamese seminar you guys read, 200 participants. So I think that we have a unique opportunity here as organizations to the partner. We are non-competitive, we can be collaborative, we can have more projects together, and I can tell you, under Runaway, our current president, your president, the leadership of both groups, I think it's a natural collaborative event. 


So I think the future's very bright, because I think that female sexual dysfunction in the US is really evolving and dramatically accelerating. But in most of the world, it still is underserved. And I think you're the experts, and we wanna use your expertise and our global reach to partner in this strategic plan. 


So with that, I'll let us finish our time, okay? And thank you everybody for giving us the opportunity at ISSF to be here, to partner with you, to speak with you, and I would encourage anybody that's interested, please come and join ISSF, because we want your energy, we want your experience, your knowledge, we wanna enhance FSD, and again, we're gonna do that through the portal of issue issue. 


So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. It's been pretty nice, and we'll get three up to talk about the past, present, and future of sexual medicine. Thank you. 
