

She works with the SDSM team to develop local research projects, write protocols, and oversee clinical trials. She also ranges for training in sexual medicine for medical students, residents, fellows, and clinicians from all over the country. 


And she works with regional supporters to provide education to provider students in the public. In addition, she developed programs for the Institute of Sexual Medicine. She co-authored One Sexist and Good to provide education and empowerment to women with sexual dysfunction. 


She is associate editor of the textbook of female sexual function and dysfunction, and author of multiple peer review journals. She is the past president of ISWISH and serves on many committees, as well as ISSM, and is the recipient of the Distinguished Service Award from ISWISH in 2017, as well as SMS in A in 2017, and is an ISWISH fellow. 


Emmanuelle Janini is a role professor of endocrinology, gynecology, and sexual medicine at the Department of Systems Medicine in North Italy, and head of the Laboratory of Molecular Endocrinology and Psychology at the University of Law in Italy. 


He is currently the president of the Italian Society of Endocrinology and Sexual Medicine, a member of the standard committee of the International Society for Sexual Medicine, chairman of the educational committee of the European Academy of Endocrinology, and he's been the editor of the section of Controversies in Sexual Medicine, and the journal of Sexual Medicine, and associate editor of the journal of Endocrinology, 


Investigational and Sexual Medicine. His scientific activities reflected in over 200,000 papers published in peer review of international journals, and his interest in sexual medicine, anthropology, and anthropology, reproductive and sexuality, particularly testosterone and thyroid, physio, and pharmacology. 


Sarah Ponce, Dr. Sarah Ponce, MD, and master's degree. a public health student at Keck University School of Medicine at USC. Class of 2026 is passionate about sexual medicine and reconstructive neurology and health equity. 


Sarah Guest-Luscher is at Keck's primary care program and equals sexual health workshop. He's a member of the Hispanic Arologic Society, Gold Humanism Honor Society, and is the lead community organizer of a patient-led organization, 25LIP, bringing sexual medicine education into residency programs nationwide. 


So without further ado, I'm going to pass it and go to our speakers. Thank you. Thank you. Well, yesterday we had speakers that made us laugh. Speakers that made us cry. I'm talking about history. My goal is to just not make me bored. 


I have no relevance disclosures. So bring a little historical perspective to the role of sex. the roles of women in sex and in relationships, how we changed over a lifetime, how we speak about sexual reflection, and then developed mental sexual medicine as an actual science. 


I at least would like to think it's a science. I was here, asexual medicine is a science now. Whoo, okay, they both, just give it to them. So they admitted that in three historic times, men and women were actually people. 


The change came when men went from being hunter-gatherers to eating farmers, and they now have possessions. And a woman was a little woman at home, and everyone at Hollywood went to a male-dominated society. 


But based on the three historic times, it actually means that before that time, men and women had been holding forth. History repeats itself, so think about some of the various lessons we're gonna hear today and where we are today. 


The Greek men ruled women. They were subordinate, they had no rights. We live to be very old age. They menstruated, they got married, they had children. They died, I'm gonna ask what the ancient times were. 


The women were only allowed to sex with their husbands, and the expectation was that there would be about three times a month. But they were young women, and they had desire. And so what they wanted doing was they learned to menstruate and they developed a dildo. 


Men could have sex with the wives, they could have sex with prostitutes, they could have sex with other men. No judgements, but the women were figured out how to do it for themselves. In the ancient realm, that continued to be a domination of men, women were considered to be a possession. 


The women were actually supposed to provide pleasure for the men, and men could situate themselves, see that however they wanted, and then the woman had literally positioned herself to give him pleasure. 


And that doesn't mean she was always on top physically, but her role is to figure out what he needed, what he wanted for pleasure. The purpose for marital sex was reproduction and that's a theme that will continue through many generations. 


But for men, we're expected to be sexually active. Homosexuality was fine, prostitution was fine, extramarital affairs were fine. But there were some really interesting tattoos. They weren't allowed to stroke their wives, because that might give them a lot of pleasure. 


They weren't allowed to look at her naked in three or seven different populations of people. They weren't allowed to see the woman naked. If it happened to me, the window was, they were near the window and the moon was shining and they saw their wife naked. 


That was okay, but they couldn't intentionally do that. So think about how awkward that must have been, having sex, that they, you know, a woman was just a tool for bringing it. Now we step forward to Taoism, 500 B.C., and they had different beliefs. 


They talked about the yin and the yang and the woman's vaginal moisture was yin, the man's semen was yang, he needed to protect his yang, so the more sex he had with women, the more yin he would have access to, that was a great benefit. 


The concern was the man losing the semen because he was losing his yang, so suddenly we have an acceptability of the hanalingas, female masturbation, because it helps stimulate the yin without losing the yang. 


But even despite that change in sexuality, the women in China were still considered mothers, housekeepers, they still didn't have a lot of power. Aristotle and I have a whole book on him, I'm not going to be through that, but essentially he's what he said, the sexual pleasure. 


It's not only for men. That's kind of the first time we hear talk about the pleasure on them, it's not just male pleasure that a woman is involved in this. In the 22nd century BC, the Chinese put together sex manuals for a young woman on the eve of her marriage. 


They ended up doing 20 chapters long, that's a lot of reading to do just before you get married. But the idea was, we planned for teaching, it was the first and the half to manuals. And the common sense really was the take off on that, it took them a couple of centuries to write it, but they were giving tips and tricks on how to have sex. 


The problem is, if you've ever seen pictures of a connoisseur, just some of those positions are really awkward because they were fashioned after nature. They saw animals in the wild, and those were how they described some of the sexual positions. 


But it's the first time we're hearing now that the groom was expected to treat his wife with respect. It's kind of a shift from a woman being just in possession and just a tool for his pleasure. And we now recognize that women have a role and we want to be able to teach women how to have enjoyable sex. 


to move into the Christianity if you time sex or the sin. We're still feeling a lot of that for those of you working with patients who have heavy religious factors. Sex is voluntary, but it's between a man and a woman in marriage, and anything else was forbidden. 


Obviously, we wrote sexual appetite is the true sin and a serious hindrance to virtuous life. But because women don't have sensation, desire, they didn't have to worry about that. Their job, basically, was to make sure that men didn't get sexually harassed. 


And you wonder why today, we're still talking about a woman who's been raped and that it's her fault. Think about this time when they're talking about it's a woman's job, not sexually arousing a man. 


When did that become our responsibility? Thomas Aquinas said any form of sex not intended for probation is sinful and crime against nature also with marriage. So we're constantly getting these messages. 


Sex is a sin, sex is only in marriage, sex is only for baby making. And we lived with those kinds of values. And at the time it was their values. We had no right to pass judgment of what they believed in a long time ago. 


But a lot of that has continued through a lot of people's value systems today. Such as it wasn't meant to be pleasurable. It was just for creation. In the 1700s we hear more about masturbation. It's a disease. 


A lot of writing, too, so regarding masturbation is a mental illness. And you couldn't cure it. We talked about literally cutting the nerves. So men who have had a sensation, we wouldn't want to masturbate anymore. 


I mean, how sad is that? These were beliefs. You know, what we believe today, who knows what people would say about that 20 years from now. But this was what was believed in the time. We talked about girls who masturbated. 


They did not develop full breasts. And that, they were sickly persons. We have a theme of masturbation, being indicative of having, you know, not being healthy. The American knowledge of beer teaches this whole concept called neurastemia. 


And it was passed by unnatural sex. So, unnatural sex was any sex that wasn't for reproduction. I looked at the sentence, to be reactive physical or mental exertion, concentration on problems, muscle cramps, and ability to collapse. 


He said all of this was caused by unnatural sex practices. The treatment for masturbation, you know, they talked about vasectomy. They talked about circumcision. And they believed that doing this, not only did you prevent masturbation, but you took alcoholism, syphilis, epilepsy. 


It's like everything in science. You do it once and it treats it and suddenly, I've got the cure. We're still doing that today, but it's experimental and think about it. You know that asthma is not definitely not treated by circumcision. 


Women can be chased, but men's and excesses were tolerated at that time. As long as they were done in secret, some of that still continues today. We tolerate behaviors that may be considered inappropriate. 


If you don't know about it, it's okay. That's not what he's saying, but I'm just saying we have a value system that's talking about don't tell me you've done it and that didn't exist. Too much sexual activity that was resulting in the loss of involuntary semen, literally leaking out and then that would lead to infinites. 


Well, they didn't really understand any of the movements at that time. So, sexual pleasure, as I think I brought this up before. Sexual pleasure women didn't experience, so they didn't have to work about that. 


I mean, these feelings they just do without sex, right? Imagine, you know, growing up at a time as a woman, and these were the values that you were taught. Everyone always says, you know, Queen Victoria stopped everything. 


Like, Queen Victoria actually herself was a famous nymphomaniac. I don't know if you manage to like work, but she chased out around the house all the time. She wanted sex all the time, and yet we have some people's writings at that time in England that the Victorian period, you know, you shouldn't be having sex, you should be chased. 


But the police, the women, felt nothing. That's what they believed. You have coitus. Maybe you feel a little pain, but you definitely didn't feel pleasure. Here's the weird one. Understand, we're talking a couple centuries ago when people did not live as long as we do today. 


But the belief was that over the age of 40, sexual pleasure was too exhausting. It was a cause of paralysis. And all I can think of is, as we age, if we're not healthy, sexual activity is very physical activity. 


One of the things when Seldalafil came out is, if a man couldn't climb three planes of stairs without being out of breath, he probably didn't have enough ability to have sex because he doesn't have a heart attack on them from a physical activity. 


So maybe this is what's referring to, because a men 50-year-old might be like an 80-year-old today. I don't know, but I think to me it's still a prejudice against pleasure. The diagnosis of hysteria came about in the late 1800s, and it was really an excuse for everything. 


I explained pain, depression, tantrums, loss of self-control, stubbornness. Well, you know, I think we could call it strong will to be positive, and stubbornness is a negative sexual desire, because women aren't supposed to have a sexual desire. 


And the belief was that it was caused by this poor, blind-footed uterus brain, which is why it's called hysteria, because the uterus is the history, and lack of sex. Twenty-five percent of women were diagnosed with hysteria, and the treatment was essentially masturbation that you couldn't masturbate yourself, somebody else couldn't masturbate you. 


So, Graham built a hammer, and that's what good physicians use to masturbate for women, so if she would have anything, she would go over half hysteria. Well, here's the good news. By 1867, this disease date was abolished. 


At least, somebody had some brains to figure out that stuff was going on. Now we're getting to more modern times. Manthagaza was an Italian, so we'll put those two are Italians here. He transplanted gonads into frogs, who measured what flow in temperature increases during counter-action, when he was doing scientific investigation. 


And it's the first time we're really hearing about that in the sexual health way of view. But he also experimented on himself to want to look at the effects of cocaine and the effects of other drugs, which he felt positive, and he was doing this on himself. 


Now, for those of you who are members of ISSM, this may be one of Joe Jobs' friendly, who experimented on himself, because of what he did, we now have a modern-day understanding of the physiology of erection. 


But this was in the 19th century, and Hunter does a bit about purity and masturbation, and after Jesus, he asked ED and a derogatory problem, special education and fertility contraception. He was very prolific, and it's the first time we're hearing about people actually talking about, you know, what's going on with the body, what's going on with the spine, and maybe we can investigate this further. 


It's interesting that the word sex didn't mean what we need to see today. Sex came in a lot with sexist, which meant division, so it was really in two groups of people, whether it's male-female, whether it is in the animals and plants, but it didn't mean sexual activity. 


So in the 19th century, when the scientists talk about sex, they're literally, they're talking about gender and reproduction. So Monteganza needed some language to talk about this whole idea of sexuality, so he used the word amor, because sex didn't mean sexuality the way we do today. 


He considered the male-female interaction for a physiological, anthropological, philosophical, and social hygienical point of view, because that's what his background was, and he actually proved that when we were counterparts in men, that he believed that women had more sexuality than men. 


although men were more intelligent than women, so he wasn't an animal, obviously men were not intelligent than women. But it's the beginning of understanding the science. Sexology, the word was used initially in 1867 in this book by Elizabeth Ritter, but listen to the title, Sexology is the Philosophy of Life, playing social organization and government. 


There's nothing about science in there, there's nothing about sex as we know it today. It was really about the interaction of male, female, and religious and feminist influences, but it is a start of the conversation. 


Now by the end of the 19th century, the German and Austrian scientists had started using sex in the way we use it today. So that's the big step forward. Pratt, I think, describes sexual litigation in his book about sexual function in forensic studies. 


In 1886, and he talks about an armative heterosexual co-edice, preferably in marriage. For this first time, he's not putting sexual mores on that. But he does describe deviations. And he considers sexual deviations to be diseases that need to be treated. 


He divided them into four categories. Sexual pleasure at the long time of life, for instance, if you were a child, or if you were elderly. So I don't consider myself elderly. And he's definitely with a bit. 


So he's telling me, I can't have sexual pleasure. But that's a deviation. It was a different time of life. He also talked about insufficient desire. Well, today, we have HSTD. He talked about excessive desire. 


We won't get into what that might or might have been. And then sexual desire with a long purpose or a lot of it. So at that point, that would have been homosexuality. It would have been a fetishism. But he's the first time he's strange to look at different categories. 


Instead of lately saying sex, at least in some marriage or anything else, he's wrong. He's moving the moral stigma of sin that came from Catholicism to the stigma of a medical diagnosis. And so that is a big shift and really the start of sexual medicine from that point of view. 


Block published and does a sexual event in Missouri design. So it was the sexual being in our time. He's this concept of sexual visit shot, sexual science. It's finally started. And Freud, Hirschfeld, and Benslow all used that term, although they didn't use it as a description of the science in their field. 


They blocked it. But we're finally seeing a sort of more modern day term. Hirschfeld was really the founder of what we know, what we think of today, social science. He was a great proponent of the rights of homosexuals. 


He himself was homosexual. He worked to develop publications in sexual medicine. And, as I say, fought for her before, Freud was sort of on a different side, because he introduced an inference, but he believed that sexual problems with an inference was only biologic in a very limited number of cases, so it was basically a psychological issue. 


And that's where much of what I believe came from. But at some point, Freud's theories were pretty much debunked. I mean, but he believed women had penis and a baby. I'm sorry, I have more than a penis and a baby. 


He believed that men always wanted to have sex, and that women who were interested in sex were slept, so they were not normal. So, again, we have moral values being placed on sexual function, and that vaginal orgasm is the way that should be. 


We have a whole orgasm section that we're going to hear. At the time, Freud was really appreciated by his level of immunity, but over time that shifted. I'm going back to Hirschfeld. I'm trying to do this in chronological order. 


In 1919, they put together an institute for sexual, an institute for sexual addition shop, which is fully sexual science information, and it was for public information, scientific research, and treatment of sexual disorders. 


And it's the first time we start to see surgery for transsexuals. We see scientific study being done, you know, and they're doing it from a scientific method. A Shapiro developed with these other than treatments for impotence and pre-jopulation. 


And they're not treatments we use today. They're no test in 14. Sounds like it's testosterone. No, it actually wasn't. But they're biologic treatments. It's the first time we're moving away from Freud who believed everything was treated on the couch. 


They had five conferences over a period of 11 years focusing on social reform, and sexual ed, sex-fed, birth control, a national approach to the problems of the Constitution, and equal rights for all people who are non-sexuals. 


And then World War II came. The Institute of Sexual Addition Shop was indicated by a new kid who lived there for five days for her to go to the front. And that was the end of our field for a while. But it grew, it repopulated in the United States where we had Kinsey who did research, he really brought to life the fact that people are sexual human beings. 


And when he did his research on that, he was greatly funded by the Rockefeller Institute and his citizen did his research on women that funding was taken away. But he started the ability for us to talk about sexual medicine and sexual beings. 


We must conclude that the current concepts of normal and abnormal human sexual behavior mainly represent moral views. They have little but no biological justification. I'm gonna try to get through my last slides quickly. 


I apologize. So most of you know about Masters and Johns and Masters. He's worked on prostitutes because it's only assets he had. And he hired Jenny Johnson to help him recruit volunteers, although he actually has sex in his laboratory, so he could see how people experience sex. 


He was shocked to find out that women faked orgasm, but the prostitutes told him that. And he brought us much of what we've learned today, the faces of sexual tension, plateaued his work as him in recovery. 


And then Helen Singer Kaplan added on the desire face. And that's a lot of what we know today until we started getting into some of the more biological things. I grew up in the sexual revolution. Make Love Mountain Dork is an anti-Vietnam, but it was all sort of not until the fact that we had oral contraceptives available, and we could now choose to have sex and be safe from procreation. 


That was a total change of what we said now. Yes, this is the U.S. influence on this piece because that's... This is my background, but it really changed our world. And in the 1970s, we now have sexual medicine as a science. 


It is early on, he said, you know, we have all this brainchild, not just like his wish was started by pulling a bunch of people together. He pulled a bunch of people together. And he said, we're interested, and that tells a bunch of this more than just, you know, psychological issues. 


I believe there's biology here. And he brought that up. And he called, it was a revascularization. He taught my husband how to do a revascularization. He brought from a bottom-up, who was a mentor for an organ duality, and this is a picture of one bottom-up, at his wish meeting, who would study FSD. 


And so we now have people who are really interested in the science. And from that core group of corpus cavernosum, it became the International Society for Impinence Research, which became the International Society for Sexual Medicine. 


And in 1988, Bill Masters himself came and said he was wrong. That imponence was not 90% psychological. It's 90% biological. Because today, we say sexual dysfunctions are bio-ledging and psychological. 


But for Bill Masters to say that, it was a huge turnaround. With the publication of the New England Journal article on Sildanafil, women were calling. My husband was the lead author of this article. They were calling himself, what the happy bit it did for me? 


I don't know. So we put together, of course, the Women's Sexual Health Women, the New Perspectives of Management with the Sexual Function and Sexual Health. We brought girls and experts. Each one knew something about their niche field. 


We said, if we sit down in one room, maybe we can start to figure it out. We did that in 1977 and 1998. And in 1999, we did it and said, hey, do you guys want to be a society? And everyone said, ooh, OK. 


Well, 98, they said no. 99's and diaphragm was the No Sexual Function Forum. And then next year, we met as the No Sexual Function Forum and said, we're really only studying humans, not the animals, but we need to rename. 


So we named the International Society for studying on the sexual health. And that's how we paid to be born. And in the 25 years that we've been around, Look at all the goddamn projects we have done. And how many more we have yet to do. 


And with that, I'd like to thank Rob Shipper, who co-authored with me a chapter on this for Special Medicine for the European Society textbook, which should be coming out any day now. I'm not sure, but it's coming out this year. 


So I want to thank him. I want to thank all of you for giving me this opportunity. Forgive me for going over my time. But I love you. I love the Society. And we've always existed. Never be in a situation where anything ever comes in and burns down in our house, in our house, in our house, in our house, in our papers. 


And will you ask for that? Thank you. Okay, it's difficult to continue the story through another perspective after the wonderful lecture. So, we will try to make a convenient perspective, talking about the evolution of sexual medicine, giving some insights from the European perspective. 


This is a chapter that I wrote for a book of Carver Toki, if you want you can scan it because the book as well of the chapter is free download, it's quite interesting. In production of us, I introduction on the history of sexual medicine, so we did something from this article. 


To be honest, from the European perspective, the beginning of the story was completely penis-centred, male, Andrology, and mostly on the recollection. So, the Andrologist, I think, presented, I think, introduced as Andrologist, which is actually true, I am an Andrologist, and also specialist in Andrology. 


But, yeah, Andrology is quite boring field of medicine because you are always dealing just with the penis and so on. So, that was the initial perspective. The doctrine of reproduction and the justice of men, there has been a kind of new revolution I personally tried, first in Italy and Europe, to go into the direction of sexuality and then, in particular, the female sexuality. 


So we know very well that the international society is the best source of permission, of education, of the international development. And that was a great achievement that the society did and is going and will be in the future. 


But also, as Steve mentioned, there is evolution. In fact, the perspective is that the opinion, the fact that evolution is an establishment of a society, completely devoted into a very multidisciplinary approach to the way to increase the opportunities of communication between researchers, between scholars about human sexual function, expansion, and sexual health. 


And I think that the issue is going into a very, very great way. So if we look at the history of the ISIS-era residents, we have to admit that the majority of the presidents has been Americans and has been urologists. 


And in particular, between the president and only one of whom he was elected as president in the recent past. So we can say the revolution, which we find on the people of the research, then the revolution of the declaration, the endography in Europe, and the final revolution is technically the ISIS revolution. 


And I think that this is very important. So the core business that I want to discuss with you is about how to make the revolution of sexual medicine. So considering female sexuality more faster. And in order to relate, I want to discuss with you five areas, which are the education of the undergraduate in the schools of medicine, as well as in the schools of psychology, then the education of post-accreditation, 


the education of the residents, the psychosexologist education, which is another unmet need, actually, from the academic perspective, and then the dream of the creation of a specialty, or a subspecialty in sexual medicine. 


So let's start from the undercurrent vision. This is a petition that I wrote in order to obtain from the Rio Rio Community Parliament, the sexual medicine teacher into the medical schools. We get the idea that the medicine without a sexual medicine is simply not medicine. 


He said in the study, as you walk through the later epidemiology or neurology of any part of medicine, a sexual medicine is the real beginning of the life, of course. because I am pretty sure that the very, very large majority of the people here in this room are here because of sexual actors. 


So if you don't want to teach sexual medicine to the doctors in Minster, then you are going very badly. And it's strange that in Italy we have been able to put sexual medicine back over for the studies in medicine. 


But, unfortunately, just one university in all the country, we have about 80 schools of medicine in Italy, and only one main medical professor of sexual medicine. But, just for the English course, because of all the Italian schools of medicine, the doctors are not allowed to know how to make babies. 


So that is the issue for the nuclear parliament and also for the universities, you know, that where sexual medicine is a part of medicine and this process is, let's say, ongoing. This is my course, actually, which is between the four and five years of the six years of medicine, we have about one credit, which is completely devoted to indominational process, but in the face of sexual medicine to sexual medicine in particular, 


paper passing all aspects of sexual medicine. Then there is also another issue that is quite interesting, which is a cost action, cost means money from the European community, a lot of money actually, and most of the researchers were able to obtain this money from the European community and we are going to try to make some lobbying because we know that if you want to have something from the European parliament, 


you need to lobby, and so we are going to spend this money in order to increase our chances to have sexual medicine in the schools of medicine for the undergraduate. So we can say that we are in a good way, and a lot about the post-graduate education. 


I think that this is the main achievement that has been reached by Europeans, and in particular I just wanted to introduce this institution, which is quite important in Europe. It is a huge committee, actually it is the oldest medical organization in Europe, it is older than 16 years, which is encompassing all the medical specialties in a kind of box, and the aim is to address, to help, to advise the Europeans, 


political departments and political initiatives to define who is the specialist for something, who is the archaeologist, who is the nephrologist, who is the nephrologist, la monde la, and the point is, who is the expert in sexual ethnicity. 


And we have been really successful actually in creating this joint committee of sexual medicine of the U.S. So it's a part of the new joint committee of the whole space entities. It is a joint committee because you know very well that sexual medicine is a very good disciplinary task. 


So this has been approved in 2011 and I'm currently the president. Again, you are not interested about the education of headphones of the multi-disciplinary joint committee of sexual medicine. You can scan the... 


this line. How is the structure of this subcommittee? We have five representatives, I mean ten of each. The board is sending two representatives, two from immunology, two from biology, two from psychiatric staff, two from an gynecologist, and two from the catology, because of the genealogy aspect of sexually transmitted diseases. 


We have also representatives from the U.S. society, we have JaMoura as an external representative of the American impossibility to sexual medicine in this country. And the major aim of this subcommittee is to create a curriculum and to qualify to an exam, the title of sexual medicine. 


And also we have 75 training centers in Europe, in Germany, two in Germany, Spain, UK, Switzerland and Israel, and the number of centers will increase in the future hopefully. What is I think the most important part of this now is the fact that we have a wonderful examination system, which is now under the rule of Melinda Vignonci, she is also in patient effort. 


And we can say that this title is unique in sexual medicine, recognized by the European organization of the specialists. So those are the ways. It has been very important for us that our curriculum has been accepted officially by Europe. 


So I believe that this is the case. that the vibrato was considered as a law. If you want to define who is an expert in sexual medicine, you have to refer to our public room approved by the UMS. And this is the mark of excellence, the title. 


The title with the help of it is giving the people who attended the two courses in Budapest that I mentioned in the migraine presentation before. This is a structure of the exam. And what is, I think, quite interesting is the number of the attendees. 


And we have quite a good rate of qualification. It is about 85% because the very large majority of the attendees were following the two schools. It is one of the two schools in Budapest, which are residential schools. 


So they are going to the exam. And then one prefer that there are also two groups. One red and one blue for... sexual medicine in particular, and for psychosexuality also. But it's also very interesting the fact that the UMS is self-defying the exam through an independent system, which is called a SSMA. 


It is a way to represent the true simplification of how the exam is conducted, and we are very proud that we obtained this simplification a few years ago. This year, we have to go again to the new application for the SSMA, and I'm very sure that we will succeed at those areas. 


I read the point, what is not so well known so far is the dedication of the residents. I mentioned the five specialties that are members of the Joint Committee. Endobenology, urology, gynecology, psychiatric, and neurotic. 


No one of those is a teaching of injury to sexual medicine. So the representatives are there, but in your work, if you are a resident in endobenology or urology, you may not receive a single exposure, no clinical, no theoretical to the sexual medicine again. 


So I think that this is a very important point, and at the end of my commitment, and my duty as a resident of the Joint Committee, I really would like to succeed. We can go to the UMS to educate the residents in the five activities, in the five specialties. 


So that is a new action that will be proposed to the whole center this year, in order to input the core knowledge of the five specialties session. medicine has that beauty. And so far as I'm going to commit this, I hope we'll agree in the near future, so we'll go to the UMS in this case. 


We don't need to go to the European Department for this aim, and this will be very important because it's simply great that the specialists from those specialists are not guilty in sexual medicine also. 


It is a new part of the story. It is a new one, the interpretation of the inside of sexology for two reasons. First, because it is a very new initiative that has been discussed very recently in Vienna two weeks ago, a meeting of the European Society, together with the European Federation of Sexology, which is one of the European societies in sexology actually. 


But what is difficult is the fact that the U.M.S. and the joint committee are dealing with medical education, not a bit of psychological education. So we are trying to think how to help this very nice idea to create a set of education, also in psychosexology. 


And this is particularly interesting because in the large majority of the European countries, psychosexology and vision is just a product. There are not so many masters or faculty officials in psychosexology or psychologists do. 


And it is a kind of jungle because we completely write up that the lack of shared curriculum that means that in some schools, some private schools, the education is good, but in many, many others, the education is tremendously weak. 


And so this will be a big problem. Finally, what about the equation of specialty or at least sub-specificity? Typically, the sub-specificity can be something which can be obtained after one of the five specialties I mentioned before. 


So we have to say that having a specialty or a specialty of sexual medicine is just a dream. Some signals are coming. For example, the same U.M.S. I mentioned a few years ago, four years ago, actually, established a thematic federation. 


And my committee is a part of this initiative on gender diversity and inclusivity, which is something very interesting. This time is particularly interesting and particularly critical, according to the news that we are looking in the division in the last few months. 


So I think that this is something which is pushing through the idea of having this specifically. Furthermore, this is another document which is coming from the UMS regarding the sexual misconduct in Sartre. 


Very interesting is that the UMS was coming with specific recommendations regarding the victims of sexual harassment and assault. So in the medical environment, in particular into the Sartre which seems to be more risky for girls than other part of medicine. 


And so this is again something that will be very interesting. My friends, we have to admit that we are basically a very radical political solution. There are criminal and stupid laws on the border. The joint environment is continuous in present. 


as we have to join them in balance. We have several countries appropriately making policies against the inclusivity, against the diversity, and against anything which is related to sexual diversity. The last system is generating the seam, always pressing, and then there is creating machinism and chauvinism, and all those things are going for specialty or a subspecialty dedicated to the sex of health. 


This tremendous importance and value is going to happen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I think that's our hope for the recovery of the sex of health of the humanity. I just wanted to announce that something which is completely new, actually, it is a two-year master, which is completely online. 


I was building this one in my university with the aim to provide us some kind of education, mostly for our gentle people who have a lot of difficulties in reaching our in-pass or in-patients. So it is the first model which is trying to put together both the sex of medicine and psychosexuality because I strongly believe that the psychosexuality which needs to be educated in sexual medicine to understand what the doctor is doing, 


but I think that the doctor who is an effort to know the language, the psychologists, the psychosexualities, is a using that cannot do sexual medicine at all. So the conclusion and the future steps that we are committed and we are facing cultural difficulties and we must do any efforts in order to make a sexual medicine as an essential part of medicine of course. 


of the psychology. The soup specialty, sexual medicine is a dream which can become a reality in not too far future by yoga. There is a point that I did not touch because it is an animated educational need. 


It is a part of the world. It is related to the female center of the spectrum. We discussed in the previous session how we can improve on this direction and the needs for educating the students and the residents and the specialists. 


So the forecast that is the last slide about the evolution of the sexual medicine. I think it's very important that the sexual medicine is continuously going into the label of the competency set and not on the opinions. 


It is very important that the procedure is the instrument that the tool uses and not just the clinical experience which is very important. So, scientific production and considering also by geometry, I think that these are very powerful instruments and when this is not used, it can produce ridiculous monsters of, let's say, scientific output. 


And so the inclusive logic, I think, is very, very important to be followed in order to avoid the diabolical temptation, the danger, to remain into a single gender, to remain into a single nation, to remain in the single education of the ground because this is not such a medicine. 


Thank you so much for your attention. Hello, everybody. My name is Terra Ponce. I am a medical student at Percival Medicine, USC. Thank you, Dr. Quayo, to the scientific committee for having me. I know I don't just speak for myself when I say that this meeting has provided much need for hope and excitement for the future. 


And thank you to the brilliant and suitable student and Dr. Jeannie for these discussions. I have no disclosures. I will be talking about my dreams and my visions for the field of sexual medicine based on my own lived experience and those of my own communities. 


And we're going to go over these objectives, but I have divided the presentation into three parts. The first part, we're going to continue the conversation that Dr. Jeannie started about the ideals for education. 


And the second part, I'm going to discuss how to use a gender-based approach to sexual medicine research. And the third part is sexual medicine as a key-dealer to the needs of all patient populations. 


So first, let's discuss the role of objectivity in medical education because students are a clear reflection of the future of medicine. some things that Dr. Dooney already talked about, but it was funny listening because their architecture is, you know, it's amazing to see what's happening in Europe because I'm just in California and we're a little bit behind CSSM, but this was our amazing complication that, 


well, that's what all of Dr. Rachel Rubin has won one of the best complications in JSM this year for. They did an assessment of the medical school's alignment with the World Association for Sexual Health and the IELTS Center recommendations for an IELTS sexual health curriculum. 


And the multiple domains they look at is helpful because it's coming through schools to allow the psychosexual influences on sexuality, especially within female sexual health all together. So there are multiple examples here of how well the schools sit on average in different domains. 


So the domain they all cover 100% with embryology. On the other hand, On average, most schools covered half or less than half of the ideal of autism. So notably, they only teach 40% of the ideal sexual assault on the curriculum, which is doctors we hope to be able to not only recognize healthy states, but also treat our patients. 


So I looked back on my own curriculum, and there were messages such as the efficacy of treatment options where he knows sexual dysfunction without a clear. And the most neglected topic was bulwark conditions. 


I only 12% coverage of this condition of this topic. And this reflects my understanding of each of the bulwark conditions. It took me multiple years to get the diagnosis to receive my multiple fully trained doctors. 


And one problem that contributes to this is the lack of standardization and accountability. This is a Canadian study looking at public documents outlining medical school curriculums, such as allied syllabi across 16 institutions, diagnosis and treatment of women's emotional and physical health issues, care delivery of sex and gender, or determinants of health. 


We're present in only zero or 37% of the public of what we have online. So changing this could help keep schools accountable to their own set standards, and also attract more diverse workforce-looking to do work who are passionate about helping women and other gender minorities. 


What about sexual pain disorders? This is our study on medical students in the public who go back to pain. We wanted to get the perspective on how medical training is doing in terms of teaching them and their peers about their conditions. 


Participants included 66 students from schools in the west, north, east and south Atlantic regions. And 52% endorsed presence of chronic public or vocal fat child pain. Pain lower pain scores appear to be worse as students progress through their training and report a higher perceived stress scores. 


And this was troublesome because the more you progress the greater your responsibilities can come. And the majority of respondents with symptoms said that their symptoms interfered with their medical duties. 


While most symptomatic respondents said that health and people with vaginal pain curriculum was inadequate at their schools, all of them said that this was important to them, that they were being covered thoroughly. 


And it was most important to those with higher homework and scores. So this gap in education creates further barriers to health care speaking. Some respondents said that they had actually never tried to seek any treatment at all. 


And the reasons for this included that it was unclear whether or not their condition was real, and maybe there's a psychological component of it. So this suggests that when people do receive the education, they will acknowledge that their pain is real and not normal, and that there are effective treatment options out there, and then seek the care they need. 


So when they do fix this, we will see better outcomes for not only our medical professionals, but for our patients as well. This is a study from the OBGYN department at my own constitution. It shows that both being satisfied sexually and having those sexual health problems was associated with comfort, optimizing their own central function in their own patients. 


And not showing your images helps them be able to initiate the conversation really about sexual health with their patients. So there's a big opportunity for improving outcomes in our patients by filling the gaps in curriculum and addressing the work most as well being. 


So where should we start filling these gaps? Well, anywhere we can. Even when medical schools are offered to bring issue issue guest lecturers and online curriculum, we're told that there's just not enough room in the menu for everyone, there's just too much to offer. 


So our approach has been to provide other opportunities for students. At my school, there's a primary care pipeline program that holds a yearly sexual health training seminar for participants. So since 2022, I have added on sexual dysfunction in history taking and the issue issue process of care to PHI data. 


So hopefully you'll be able to see more of these furls coming in soon, or perhaps less, depending on how many of these PCPs are recruited today to which. Another example of how sex might be incorporated into medical school is through student interest groups, like a urology student interest group. 


And while I was in leadership, the urology students who hosted the Sexual Medicine Awareness Week, and this was one week out of the year where students can get education that they would otherwise never get in a wheelchair. 


I had students come up to me throughout the week and tell you that they were grateful because they brought to life some conditions that they actually were experiencing themselves. And when we had our one-hour rotation panel, a group of students actually stayed an extra hour to continue asking questions. 


Many of the leaders in this field, especially in this room, are also working from the inside of American Neurological Association on the board curriculum for female sexual dysfunction. But still so far, only 30% of female urologists treat female sexual dysfunction and 11% of male students. 


So now we're looking at the respondents of the census in 2020. there were one thing that was 20 to seven male respondents. And now in 2025, three female applicants to four male applicants have matched in neurology. 


This is thanks to organizations like Society of Women in Neurology and Neurology Bound, which is dedicated to recruitment and retention of diverse workforce in neurology. In fact, we hosted a journal club recently on two central functions and particles. 


So this is very exciting because a lot of the data of female sexual medicine is retrospective. It's probably something compared to female sexual medicine. But in the future, it can be prospective. And why is that? 


It's because people who are leading the academic institutions are now being empowered and passionate about female sexual medicine. And maybe in the future, we'll see signs of this shift, such as additional anyway guidelines relevant to female sexual medicine. 


And the anatomy section of the fourth grade journal can also see some changes as well. So I'm sure this module can be accomplished. But that's not the only reason we should be passionate about treating sexual dysfunction in all genders. 


So it's also because we have the tools that we want to use them to advance care for all our patients. According to people, our gender expansive is a term for those who do not follow gender stereotypes or who expand ideas of gender expression or gender identity. 


It's not a term exclusive to any one gender identity, rather it's an approach or a philosophy. And the latter is this approach to speech analysis. So we've learned all about this. Everyone knows the problem structure of the kids and the literacy. 


It's been discussed for many years and we know how much of the social population this is. And the previous study, also at all, showed that in medical school, teen outworction is taught twice as many times as the total orangement. 


Of course, we've learned about cardiovascular risk seen with the female doctor of ultrasound and is comparable to the pittoral doctor of ultrasound from Dr. Grignozzi over here, and of course Dr. Kingini who is acting on this new female ultrasound school that they will be starting in registration opening this month. 


So this is just an example of a teen out of sexual medicine working hard to play catch up to the innovations in male sexual medicine. But still, we are moving faster than that by doing this. We explore innovation to improve health outcomes in our patients. 


Another example of breaking the barriers is surgical innovation in the worse, called the 12 o'clock vestibular poor decision with bubble graft reconstruction. This is being developed by Dr. Grignozzi, for now, for the rest of Virginia. 


It was adapted from other pieces of the bubble graft from the chief, such as in urethral plasticity and urethral structure and injury repair. And also thank you to Dr. Grignozzi for pointing this out to me, that the bubble graft is now used to generate reconstruction expertise. 


So now we have the potential to easily assess graft-issue viability over time, which is something you cannot do through plastic, so that was a sausage-y and more basic procedure. So this could affect everybody. 


Now we know the advances in care for genital urinary syndrome and applause have been incredible. And now at this conference, there's real struggle-izing with Sarah Pinocchio, Dr. Rachel Rubin, and Dr. 


Quayle, expanding these terminology to the genital urinary syndrome of, like, whatever the inciting hormonal deficiency is. And we're learning how much transplant and transmatosupplicizing of are people by the purpose. 


So it's been shown that gender-permission cell therapy reduces vaginal thickness and estrogen receptors in vaginal tissue. And this is probably a contributing factor to the highly reported vaginal pain and discomfort in sexual activity. 


So the population will truly benefit from research on behalf of the effects of vaginal estrogen in genital urinary syndrome and transmatosupplicizing. And to drive this home, male's benefit from the research on menopause, a scene in the menopause movement, and of course, female's with testosterone. 


So, how do I read conductor studies outside of the gender binary? To maximize the impact and not be afraid to investigate more than one gender or sex. Dr. Moroff is an excellent researcher at Stanford, who studies sexual medicine in transgender populations, and her and her team published a helpful guide in exactly this. 


So, when we collect data on all genders for your study sample, using validated and recommended methods, and this book publication did provide all of them. And again, this is even when not conducting trans-specific studies, because all studies can be gender-inclusive and provide data on how different biological sexes and sex variations of genders are affected. 


To report desired data data, do not report sample characters as transgender. Be specific and think about what your study, for example, what is relevant to your study. So, for example, if your study's not a home or a pain, you can say that the populations, people involved us, and specified other relevant characteristics, such as on-gender, for me, hormone therapy, or not. 


At the same time, be conscious of confidentiality issues. So, for example, our survey on medical students, we didn't specify gender identity, they're characteristic, only individuals, aside from others, who were with us. 


This was because their rank of small numbers were trans-individuals, and we don't want to complicate their confidentiality. We acknowledge limitations of data. For example, two number of views comment on inappropriately-aggregated samples and possible reasons for limitations, such as confidentiality. 


Four, use trans-inclusive language that does not conflate sex assigned to earth or gender. So, yes, we must use the sample characteristics of prior studies when discussing the findings, such as studies on women. 


But now we have an opportunity where newer studies are disaggregated with her. So, if a study defines a population as assigned to earth, do not report the results as a study on women. And five, engage trans community members and scholars in your design and analysis, especially if your community is involved in the research or being studied or will be potentially impacted by the results. 


This type of community-based participatory approach can be utilized with any sort of population, for example, patient representatives and clinical research. That brings us to the future of central medicine and central education experiences. 


I've been a member of Thailand for the last three and a half years. It's a patient-led advocacy organization for public and both vaginal pain. We have built connections with OB2N residents, program directors, and faculty throughout the country. 


And we fought for a seat at the table and OB2N curriculum content reform. We're trying to fix a problem that all of our members have face time and time again, which is dismissal, inaccessible payer, I just hear a lot of answers. 


So at USC, we've gotten committed for program directors a patient panel, a lecture on pediatric neuralgia, vestibilodynia, korodynia, ptosis, et cetera. And this year, we were actually, we actually have members at Creon currently, as well as members here at this wish. 


So there's, you wanna learn more about how to get help, how we can help you, if we're gonna help you in our place in the program. You can talk to Kelly, Jennifer, and Sarah, or if I have. Patient voices that need to be, especially in other video right now, are those of Hispanic and Latinx patients with neuralgia. 


In a sample of 2,000 women in the U.S., Hispanic individuals have the highest prevalence of neuralgia. And of these patients, Spanish-speaking patients, were less likely to initiate a discussion on racial effects in doctors and have higher suspicion of them. 


And suspicion may be warranted because it's associated with longer-time diagnosis and having to see more doctors before receiving a diagnosis. It's also associated with more, experiencing more discrimination in their health care experiences. 


In addition, clinicians are less likely to bring out sexual concerns with Spanish-speaking patients. All of this is likely to contribute to higher sexual, phrasal sexual dysfunction, as well as awareness of allergies. 


And we are in the midst of conducting a systematic review on polygenium in Hispanic and Latinx patients. And in studies in both English and Spanish, there are only nine in the U.S. and only two in Latin America. 


I've already mentioned three of them. So now, we don't live in a vacuum. We try to do more research with what little funding we have, but we cannot ignore the fact that so much is being shipped away from the structures that protect our patients and the patients who have had little access to sexual abuse in the human, not to mention the threat to a more diverse workforce that can only benefit the patients who they represent. 


So who's going to promote health equity? Well, we will. This may or may not be a surprise to you, but I started medical school interested in primary care, being a primary care doctor. And as a pre-medical student, I had by participating in highlight programs for underrepresented minorities in medicine. 


And they always emphasized us going into primary fire. And this is to give back to the communities that we come from. This is, you'll see, obviously, I wanted to help address disparities. And I was inspired by American experiences as Mexican immigrants, and my dad's stories as a firefighter in Los Angeles. 


I wanted to work closely with the community to promote everything. And I've learned that there are many ways that choice, and especially female sexual medicine, can close those gaps too. Health equity is spreading throughout a sense of sexual medicine by going into your community to bring sexual medicine to them. 


One example of this is a sexuality workshop with South Asian women utilizing multi-mobile group education, where they learn about the orgasm gap, health and co-op anatomy, masturbation techniques, mindfulness, and more. 


And they found that participants have improved sexual function. Qualitatively, participants reported feeling more in control and less shame in seeking an orgasm, and they felt they had more of a right to pleasure. 


So you can see how this might impact health care seeking behaviors and reduced duty sex down the line. I was very happy to see that some workshop published because I've been working on something similar to the last year in collaboration with Taitlin to the Wellness Center and the Family General Medical Center. 


We've implemented a monthly two-part series for using Taitlin in health education led by Taitlin to medical students. In part two is taught by a physical therapist who demonstrates public-forward exercises and teaches them to participants. 


We're doing an analysis of the program as well as initial focus group findings revealed that motives for joining include gaining knowledge in general on health and health, and being able to share it with younger generations such as their children and grandchildren so that they don't have to suffer with their kids. 


Conditions, experience for general urinary syndrome, menopause, pain in public exams without a specific diagnosis, pelvic organ prolapse, urinary incontinence, and history of menopause, pain and surgery. 


Participants were all, are all Spanish speaking, predominantly from Mexico, and all described being affected by social, cultural stigma about talking about their mental health, and notably many used public transit in the two hour bus menu, but this wasn't a barrier for them because they said that the workshop was worth it. 


Most common benefits include knowledge and conditions, knowledge and conditions and anatomy. Cover speaking to doctors about their symptoms, which actually led to further evaluation with hurdles and diagnoses, asking for smaller specimens at the end of the public exam, and when even reported, now she's feeling more comfortable initiating a conversation about sexual function with the doctor. 


The third one, the most common benefit that was expressed was telling the floor exercises and improving your symptoms and your sexual function, and cognitive. This public floor part of the workshop has already been completed by a former volunteer artist who is a new PT grad. 


So you can see that these community-based programs can target specific populations in these. This is a study by Dr. Chinek Thorne, who I might be here, but I know some of her research students are here, and they do amazing work. 


So you all published recently on experiences of black women with sexual pain. This can function as a community needs assessment for future workshops. She identified modifiable environmental factors such as racial representation and leadership of a workshop, the role of religion, as well as personal factors such as body autonomy and setting boundaries, as well as involving male partners in the education and learning community, 


and behavioral factors as well, which is community-related. So this is all to promote the quality of life and essential wellness, and any of these community workshops will be able to promote this equity and make care of our widespread. 


So two months in the year, and scientific progress, equity, and safety have been threatened and compromised every day, but we're still here, and we're out there in the community. Such medicine matters to people, we just need to be allowed and unified in order to fight for our patients. 


So thank you to all of you and to all my mentors who are very interested in this. Thank you. As a lot of day, my mentors, we remind you all the time about how their patients are celebrating, if they're struggling, and also their own struggles with a restrictions call system. 


Even have some guys at a time where it's very difficult to find the right voice if you know such a way to say it. And you're all a reminder for how this world needs this field, and you are a reminder for how much we belong here. 


So, thank you, because we are a teacher. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. So, we have about 10 minutes or so, maybe a little bit less for any questions. So, if you have any questions, please come up to the microphone. 


Thank you for that fun presentation. And I just wanted to kind of plug in. If any medical students are looking for any training in second health, we do have our sexual health and gender permanent care rotations specifically for third year and fourth year medical students at GW. 


There's also a resident family rotation. They can use it for the most extended elective time. You know, primarily for the well clinic for three to four weeks. third- or fourth-year residency for OE clients. 


We're actually taking on a family-to-medicine resident as well, hopefully soon, so we'll keep making sure we come up with the stimuli, please, everything that we have, or you can come join us. And then as well, there's two sets of medical issues, both at GW, even at the University Hospital, I know Fred had a place at GW for graduates, but we've heard all the training here right here, thanks. 


Yeah. Hi, my name's Austin, and I'm an OB-GYN in Dallas, and I have three young children. Thank you so much for your presentation, it was really incredible. My question is, as a mother in Texas, I'm so terrified of the lack of sexual education for our youth, and I wonder if you guys can comment on that, or if there are any silver lines, and I look out for Dallas. 


I don't think any of us are really supposed to do that. to the programs in Dallas. This is the one time that I would say that they put this through the internet, use as much of all information that's available, that's also really good information on the internet. 


And his mission numbers are around the world. We include such an amount of educators, they said to include such an amount of educators. So I would say if you live in a space where you're not able to get physical education, use your best online resources and just make sure you vet it yourself because not everything online is to be speed up. 


We're out of time. Dr. Erskine. Thank you so much, I just, I'm so overwhelmed and impressed about having the student here to give such a clear, precise, beautiful presentation, highlighting the needs of the future. 


And it brought up one of the questions that I have for all of you who's been on the community, thinking about when we create these training and certification, there are very few medical conditions that are so culturally influenced by the way sexuality is, right? 


People's hearts have a good shape, a way to define desire, whether it work as a arousal, the way people experience pain. We talk about biopsychosocial model, but I worry sometimes about the American behavior as a sort of approach to how people have sex and when we are promoting it kind of worldwide, how we're bringing that into other places. 


And I want to get your thoughts on how we can really think about cultural awareness, bringing people from around the world to help educate us in thinking about how we expand knowledge, especially with the people from all over the world in our countries as well. 


And I worry about us projecting our view of sex onto how people should be doing it. I'm curious your thoughts. I think it is very, very important to follow you, and I wrote a chapter from who currently related to the sexuality in China, the Chinese culture, the Chinese history. 


And it is completely different than the perception of sexualities also of the intervention, of the medical intervention, you know. For example, in many, many parts of the world, there are the traditional Chinese, Vietnamese, Indian, Mexican, and they do have also some remedies for sexualities. 


So I think that this is a very, very important point to try to admit that we have something which is universal, so the sexual rights of people. And this is no matter of culture, it's a matter of humanity, just of humanity. 


But then we have to admit that in order to meet the difference, the culture should make an effort about it. There is a book, which I've written many years ago, by a French sexologist, Jean-Yautique. the erotic function and the name of that man, and the last part, the nature of the book was something like that. 


If somebody wanted to deal with the human sexuality without knowledge in history, theology, culture, economy, political, of course, anthropology, ecology, gynecology, psychology, cyber-analysis, blah, blah, blah, he should be arrested for illegal provisions. 


So I think that this is a very important point, the fact that we should be able to deal with the different cultural stuff. So my experience is just for the younger part, but we are also, for example, the African part, the Middle Eastern, and they do have a completely intersectional part of their sexuality. 


So it is a challenge, but also fascinating in my very own book, Mika. The most important efforts are possible for meeting their own cultures. Wonderful question. Thank you all. I just love this session. 


There are so many comments that I would love to make. So I'm a family medicine physician as my base training, and I'm a very proud fellow of the European Committee on Sexual Medicine because 10 years ago when I was entering this field, that felt like the home for a physician like me to get a certification that mattered in this field. 


And so I'm wondering if you could all talk about the threats, the barriers, and the opportunities with regard to the development of a subspecialty in a variety of fields. particularly for those of us who are taking care of sexual medicine and people of all genders, what are some of the threats and opportunities in this space for this country? 


I do know I approached the ACG&V probably 25 years ago. What do we take to have sexual medicine specialty? And what I was told was until we have residency programs in sexual medicine, we can't have a specialty with designation of sexual medicine. 


It's hard for the course. I think that with having this role role model in Europe, things will change over time, but I think it's very slow. We do need to make it multidisciplinary and not all the disciplines that are involved really support this while there are people in our society that are members of all these very disciplined disciplines. 


It doesn't mean that the leadership in some of these specialties believe in... the importance of sexual medicine, and so I think until they have that buy-in, so is it a group, they can then approach us, which is, you know, this is what we need, you know, we need a board specifically for this, and we're just going to see what is a unified group. 


Until we can find that unification here in the United States, and I speak with the US bias, because this is my background, I think that's going to be an issue, but I'm hopeful that someday, I mean, when we went to open our sexual medicine practice, let me just say from a personal point of view, meeting with CEOs of hospitals, we had to explain that we're coming in with talking about the medicine, 


not talking about sex. We have emergency medicine, we have all this specialty for medicine, so specialty for medicine, and all people heard the word sex, but until we get rid of those biases, I think that's going to be a very difficult road, but hopefully soon, in the future, making a serious lifetime. 


I was just thinking about OB-GYN tight licks, and we started our campaign for the OB-GYN residency program two years ago, and we stuck to OB-GYN, obviously sexual medicine is everywhere, but the reason we did that was because we're a volunteer-based program organization, so it's just shared a lot of capacity, and basically what we're doing is trying to do what Dr. 


Keating is doing in Europe, but as patients, and from all different professions, there are varying levels of social and economic power, so I think there needs to be a better model, an organization of power that helps us do the work that we do, for questions. 


If I can add something, maybe you can admit that there is another one in the room, which is impuring that attitude, that a lot of doctors are believing it will be the enemy's work. It was my problem, actually, also in my university, in all my life. 


So they said, okay, it would be important, but at the end of the story they said, maybe not, maybe it's too early, maybe you don't have the curriculum, maybe it's not enough science, maybe they didn't, but the real point is the human attitude. 


Sex is not considered something that people can discuss. And this is, I'm afraid, tremendously, dramatically present in this country. In particular. And so I hope that the future will be better. But this is a major point. 


Thank you all. So the more we discuss it, every conversation, we're hopefully making that change. Thank you. Hi, my name is Ela Plody with Metacologists in New York. And I just want to thank everyone for this panel, for this great discussion. 


I also want to deduct a woman's point. You know, she asked how... do we not break our biases to different parts of the world? And so I think that's where people from different backgrounds come into play. 


And I think that's why this speech is so great because there's so many people with different backgrounds up as part of their boards, so that we have more culturally competent individuals spreading the message, helping people become more sex-positive. 


And to your point about the pro-technical danger, I think that a lot of countries, specifically in Pakistan and still, I know that the colonialism of Islam is a very sex-positive religion, and Muslims were very sex-positive before we were colonized, and then the colonialist brought the third kind of abuse. 


And so now, sex is seen as wrong, dirty, shameful. So I think it's really important to let you just go back to the history, take a look at where individuals came from, even in India, right? If you come as future, I know sex-positive they were. 


So it's really important to understand people's backgrounds and then to help them to see where they were and how they can go back to that way. Well, thank you all so much for coming. Hi, everyone. Thank you so much for keeping me awake on day three. 


I know, I know. And teaching me some things. My name's Linda Weiner. I'm a sex therapist here to learn everything I can and about my partner in treatment of people with sexual dysfunction. And I just want to say that I appreciate the idea of involving all manner of subspecialty in not just one, not just medicine, not just mental health, but subspecialty in the importance of cooperation model. 


Thank you so much. All right, so we're gonna wrap up. Thank you so much to our speakers, and I just wanted to put a plug that if you are interested in joining an ISWISH committee, we can use all the help that we are going to be meeting in the international cafe over to our far right of the building outside of the grant program. 


So we'll go over there and learn about the committees and sign up. It's another one of the education committees. Do one of those, I don't want to do one. 
