

Okay, we're going to get started for our election room session now. So I can now ask Hannah to speak with his team, Dr. James Baus. Hi, I'm Suzanne Gilbert-Lens. I'm a board-certified refugee layup in practice in Beverly Hills, California, and I focus on midlife mental health and menopause. 


I'm also the clinical officer of the Monica and William Gaskin Program here. So we're here to have a really interesting presentation on Hannah's excited deluxe. So I feel like most of you guys are aware of kind of the interesting conversation that has begun to evolve in this area, and just to kind of put a little content from it, the 2023 local sex wellness market was estimated at $83.6 million. 


So it's projected to reach over $115 million by 2030, and that includes ludes, edibles, possible rates, all of the things. So what's the science that may be or may not be that we're going to hear about that now from Dr. 


James Baus, who told me that I don't really need to read a while because everybody knows who he is. He's really, really amazing. But I'll give you a couple of fun facts, okay? He is a neuroscientist who is some of the most incredibly ignorant and brave. 


He is the director of research at the Center for Sexual Health and Intervention in the Czech Republic, where he also serves as a professor at 12 universities on the faculty of humanities and medicine. 


He has been calling now. He's a Renaissance man who is extremely excited, but also he served as the director of this wish, so maybe his most powerful name. So without further ado, I'm going to introduce James Baus. 


and that's been very nice for me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. OK. Let's get right to it because I want to pass some times with questions. And I'm sure you have any of those. I don't have any of the answers. 


OK. Here are my disclosures. And what you see down there in your DZ, that's news. That's also in check. So the news stuff should be as a DABBY. Those news, can you check? Which is National Seal of Mental Health. 


So I do sex research at the news. OK. Let's get right to it. From all of us in this, I've talked about this a million times. This is the whole model that is kind of fashioned after Michael Cuomo's model. 


Which is kind of fashioned after Michael Jensen. So we've got Derek, who's got Greg, who kind of stole the whole idea from Pavlov. But Pavlov's fully edited for the second. So let's see his teacher with the idea. 


that there's excitation in addition, and not necessarily the kind of inhibition that Barry and Zara talked about that we need in order to be able to stimulate the genitals that wash that pain. This is kind of a general system that evolves over a period of time where behavior has to be gained in the middle of the day. 


And in choosing the body, you have excitation when there's sexual interest in you, but excitation because that excitation reaches that peak at the orgasm, and then it diminishes. And these white diminishes can be activated over a fragmentary period. 


A fragmentary is inhibition. It's inhibition over the excitation, okay? So imagine on the right-hand side that you were kind of stuck with sexual excitation. Well, brother states have activated, those neuropresidents, and both the northern and the lateral organs, oxytocin, are going to be unchained to that excitation today. 


Brother states have completed systems of inhibition to the inhibition and inhibition. It is inhibition, which is actually excitation. They're going to shut down the serous protein and both the organs, which are coming online, for example, at orgasm. 


You can be stuck with sexual inhibition. Brother brother states have activated those indifferent drug systems. But also, brother states have completed the excitation. Okay? Now, why are they talking about this? 


Why is this important? Well, the things like such, a rapid disorder is the orgasm disorder, the no-armgasm disorder. You can imagine it evolving from systems that are either hypo-functioning excitation or hypo-functioning inhibition, or both. 


And, in fact, and we, again, you can see, it's not a theory forward, but it's kind of like a different person. You've got some impressions of the idea. where somebody's making room with a basic problem being low on sexual cues, something that's based on high-position sexual cues, but something that's both. 


In fact, we worked on some section today where we talked about a case where people strive both for cancer and bring the land up to the individual, but then it was able to reset the balance of the use. 


I think that's incredibly important to understand. Now, with the drugs in the pipeline, there's an added diagnosis of single nucleotide polymorphisms. You can ask the question, is it really true? Is it one over the other? 


Or well, yeah, it's all three. With the single nucleotide polymorphisms, particular genes that are associated with that segment, you can get a signature, all-to-command diagnosis for things that can just be a problem with orgasm disorder as well, Look at the volume, you can see now that you have random assignment of people that are responders and non-responders. 


When you're looking at Fibrido and Libridos, you can see 1 to 1.5 more sexually satisfying effects. Why? Because you're basing out two orders. You're basing responder to non-responder. When you separate it out, with the single nuclei that's on work is an analysis, you now have two to three more SSDs per month over the single drug. 


So, by separating them out, you're doing personalized medicine with that order. Why is this important? Because one of which is not very easy, I think the other one is this function. Things work on this inverted U-shaped curve. 


Most things in life work on an inverted U-shaped curve. This is the old dirty thoughts of the function that said there's an optimal amount of performance that is achieved by an optimal interval arousal. 


If you're sub-optimal in your arousal, you won't be sub-optimal in your performance. Why do you care? If you have too much arousal, you can concentrate. You need mindfulness. You need to be able to move yourself back from the hyper to that optimality point of view. 


So, in addition, if you're hyper, you need excitation if you're hyper. And what that means is everyone needs to know the baseline state of their functioning to know or to be able to predict what drug effect might be. 


That's going to become important when we talk about psychedelics, and it's going to become important especially when we talk about panelists. So, what do you know about co-morbidity, or sexual dysfunction, depression, and anxiety? 


There's a huge amount of co-morbidity. I mean, maybe not so much about the certainty of desire and forecasting or the pain that co-morbidity is depression. is humongous, right? So let me introduce first. 


Keep that idea for our expression. And that co-working of your sexual and sexual expression and anxiety is internalizing this disorder to increase distress and fear and bother. And then you can almost become OCD about it. 


Is this gonna happen? Is this bad thing gonna happen? I'm gonna start to spectate of myself and not know what this sexual cue is doing right next to me that I used to be able to respond to when I came. 


So it wrote very much on the model of the disorder. You see it as kind of a positive feedback, okay? So, you know, there's sexual stimuli, they activate dopamine and oxytocin, you get aroused, that's also after the event, more dopamine oxytocin, they're irrelevant. 


You have innate desire, which is for both of them. So you're gonna have greater desire. At some point during the cycle, they gave two or three points during the cycle, and then two or other points during the cycle. 


But those are the response that desire you, which is experientially driven. And that is actually a different way to sensitize dopamine. What sensitizes it? For more. Especially what we're looking for. 


As sensitizes dopamine neurons, we get more dopamine released in response to cues that predict more. When you notice the drug addiction, it's exactly the same for food, for sex, for proper role. And those rewards, they become incentives. 


Or you see it in a distance, you say, oh man, yeah, I want that. I want to do this. I'm fantasizing about that. Those incentives, when you can get it, it can be one, but as you grow, it becomes bigger. 


And those men, it can make you more sexual, more sexual, more sexual. And they're influenced by you, which then amplifies the sexual. Stimulate, amplifies the drug, amplifies the drug, et cetera, until this happens. 


When you lose your morning, that being anhedonia can be through any number of reasons, okay? The stimulus is not good enough, it's not caring enough about you, whatever it can be, but you lose your morning. 


And when you lose that, you're going to jam in the middle of this beautiful positive feedback system, and often the negative feedback system. So where to start out is important. And you can think of this mutual analysis as an idea, that there are going to be any number of regions going up your brain from the end of the world itself that are going to matter, okay? 


If you're going to dream, you can get important. It's going to matter, because you're not going to get to the world. You're going to tap out before that ever gets there, okay? And if you go to a region five of the brain, while you're constantly catastrophizing about them, you're not going to know. 


but in fact, it's painful. I mean, I think of jaws. A shark is coming. No, no, no, you can't tell me about the floor. It kind of hurts even more. So, the reason I ask this is I think it's really important because it involves distressing feelings of frustration and hurt dysphoria. 


And again, one of the things we've been hearing over and over again from many years at this conference is that when you live with this, they literally, they accept it as their next life. So, with that form of wounds, what about psychedelics? 


There are several types. Actually, there are many types. This is not a fight. It's like always an exhaustive slide, but we'll look at psilocybin, kind of mushrooms, kind of Peyoni, which had been invested in me. 


Obviously, less energy acid than the acetylate or LSD. Sybilized in 1938, but discovered in 1943 by Robert Loughlin, who ended up taking it himself and having it pass it and put it into our trip in Shoto. 


There's also Indian Bay, next to sea. All of them, even though it's a structure, have a structure that puts it very much at the same time. And they work on search to reduce this kind of stuff. So, psilocybin messes with one of our examples. 


Well, actually, all of them are agonists of 5H21A and 2A receptors. So they act like serotonin at these receptors. Things like methadise and methamphetamine are different. They block the re-uptake of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. 


So, but again, you're producing an enhancement of serotonin dysfunction, right? Now, you may remember 5H2A receptors are the ones that flamance certain targets as a kin tags. So, in addition to thinking about it, I don't know, almost like experientially, well, if I'm tripping and I'm seeing, you know, things coming out of other people's hair and I'm looking at a house and it kind of resembles the face, 


I'm probably not going to be able to function sexually. And that's true. Don't read LSD and try to have sex. You're going to look at your genitals and wonder what bug that is. Your penis becomes a crawling penis thing and it crawls way out of you and goes up on the wall. 


There's no way to do that, but what there is is micro-dosing on some of these products. The idea that micro-dosing somehow changes your perception of the world. It certainly changes your brain. This is IOWA stuff. 


IOWA's digital reading, because it's got nothing to do with it, but it also has... harm these alkaloids. Now DMT is very fast natural, it doesn't get metabolized by monoid oxidase, but what's cool is that the harm, the beta carbonyl alkaloids act as amino inhibitors, so they keep the DMT effect lasting longer. 


But that effect is still, like psilocybin, life vessel acting as agnase, and by their shape, 1A, which is a recent after-bottom receptor, and that's an agnase that by the way, you're producing less serotonin release, but then it's kind of offsetting that by activating it into other stuff like that. 


Well, there's a 100% genetic effect that serotonin is deeply involved in, and the reason for this is because serotonin is involved with sleep. Serotonin comes online to produce slow way of sleep. And when you go from slow wave to ram, which is an urgent stage one, get out of the stage, Saratoga shuts that down. 


And as soon as you go into ram, your first ram theory, Saratoga comes out of line slowly to shut it down, your second ram theory comes out of line faster to shut it down, and your third ram theory comes out of line seven side. 


So Saratoga is involved in slow wave sleep. Now imagine a hallucination is essentially for you while you're away. You're seeing things that you'd see in a green state, but you're away. And part of what Saratoga is doing is it's shifting the balance and the balance, the way the balance processes sensory information, and that's shutting up the sensory cortex and distorting the way that information is processed. 


There are short long-term effects of LSD, so you can see in the placebo effect on top, which you would get with the visual stimuli processed in the visual cortex, which you can see in the back, or at the bottom here. 


But now look what happens with LSD. You're processing things in the visual cortex, for sure, but now you've got like parietal lobe, you've got, I mean basically they have the whole brain activated to participate in this processing. 


So a normal sensory stimulus is now got feeling associated, it's got odor associated with it, it's got things that are, you know, maybe fantastically associated that go over it. And that produces, in some people's minds, a functional wiring of the sensory cortex. 


Once you have hallucinated and seen a house that looks like a face, right over the doors, the nose, the stupids, the mouth, the two windows, and the eyes, once you've seen that and you make that kind of weird association, you will never going to see it. 


You will always kind of look at it and say, oh, I see it! in the unity between these things. And sure enough, in the nucleus of commonness, LSD will increase dopamine, but it also increases serotonin in medial prefrontal cortex. 


And the increase in serotonin typically shuts down the increase in dopamine. So LSD is kind of doing both things. It's activating kind of limbic dopamine structures that are potentially attentional mechanisms, but that can be serotonin in the prefrontal cortex. 


There's an executive function mechanism. Notice it's not doing anything in the VTA. That's a regular way that dopamine cell bodies are. So it's got a particular pharmacological profile that then changes the way we perceive things. 


LSD psilocybin also increase cortisol. They increase prolactin. Now, I showed you an increase in dopamine in the incumbents, but it decreases dopamine in the mycotylic. And that decrease of dopamine that leads to an increase of colactin, it leads to an increase in oxytocin, and also brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, which is just a much shorter type of factor. 


So it's changing the neurochemical structure of the brain in response to sensory stimulant. What happens when the drug wears off? It goes away. But you're left with a memory of it, usually in good treatment. 


Sometimes it can be a bad trip because somebody's going to leave and you have to drive home and you're like, how do I start the car? I'm hallucinating. It's kind of a bad thing. You've got to get the car, you've got to go freak out. 


That can happen. But normally, these things produce good trips. If you remember when Carlos Castaneda's book was about the actuated knowledge, where he's doing chaotic and learning from that in an almost spiritual kind of way, you've got to get these fields like that. 


Now, the serotonin activation of descending glutamate drugs, free-frontal cortex, activate inhibitory cap and endurone, and it typically shuts down dopamine. But what's interesting here is that with LSD and with MDMA, you're blocking the re-uptake of the dopamine. 


So you're actually, again, rebalancing this system in a way that other drugs don't do it. If you block it up with 5-Hg1-A agonist or with phlebitisone, that might be a 5-Hg2-A and agonist, you block that whole system and so that dopamine goes up. 


And that's one of the things that drug like phlebitisone can do to enhance such a function. Now, in addition, hallucinogens strengthen the connection to the cortex, and we saw that before with those massive activation of all of those cortisol responses in the presence of a single visual cure. 


That typically is only actuated. You're reducing to a separate, an extra separate boundary, is that a good thing? Yeah, because that's what gives you the spiritual idea that how I'm merging with you. 


If you've done ecstasy or NDMA at a rate, I mean, the dope enhancing function on the days of dancing is going to make you want to dance, break it down for some reason. You're doing that broadly, touching the aura of the person you're dancing with, okay? 


That you're not really. But the drug that you think you are because of the reduction in these interceptor and extra separate boundaries. Your internal state becomes that person's external state. And if you're narcissistic, and if the other person's narcissistic, it's the same thing. 


You look at action, reduced ego processing because of that. It's not all about me, it's about all of us in this room, dancing to the same beat. increased awareness of molecules, increased connection of things, because this happens. 


And you're simply distorting the atoms, and distorting them the way it projects sensory input to the proper places. Now it's projecting it all over the place. But that's real, because you're living it. 


Okay, so what about the effects of microdosing so exciting? There are not many good, randomized clinical trials on this. And certainly not really good ones for sex. I'll show you one that I think is amazingly good. 


But what you get with it, in some studies, is an increase in volume, an increase in mindfulness, which you see here placebo half-dose versus the microdose. Half-dose is the half of the microdose. So you can see that within the microdose, you have an increase in mindfulness, an increase in life satisfaction, somewhat of a decrease in paranoia, and an increase in cognitive function, which is assessed by things like that dot protest, 


for example, using pictures that are going to be interesting. So the increase in all of this decreases depression. When you are depressed, much of this is diminished. So after microdosing, you're working against the depression because you're working to increase well-being, to increase the feeling of mindfulness, of life satisfaction. 


This study is, I think, one of the good ones in the scientific reports from last year, where they looked at psilocybin, 25 micrograms, or psilocybin, 25 milligrams, versus acetaloprene, 10 milligrams. 


People were treated for three months, and then in a six-month follow-up, they asked six questions. And what's really astonishing with this study is, if you look at the psilocybin condition on the right-hand side versus the acetalapram condition, people on the acetalapram who were now off it for a few months had a percentage of return of their sexual problems in addition to a return of their depression. 


People who had been on psilocybin at that dose in this particular study did not have that. They had a sparing. Their sexual function had increased at its state, as you can see in the green, for example, which is, of course, an increase as opposed to a decrease. 


Due to the acetalapram, there's a lot more decreases in all of those measures relative to the psilocybin. It's not a direct effect of psilocybin. It's an effect of psilocybin that immediately breaks their depression, which is comorbid with their sexual dysfunction. 


Yeah. So... For the effects of MDMA, because it's got a slightly different mechanism of action, in a really wonderful review of RCTs that appeared in our journal, Sexual Medicine and Blues, acute MDMA between 1,725 and over them is facilitated general lubrication, increased sexual desire, increased orgasm quality in women. 


That and acute MDMA in doses increased desire for orgasm quality, but in some studies, they reported increased or inconsistent directions. That's also true of amphetamine, or methamphetamine. Take it out of particular, then people generally take it to get high, at these high doses, which are not microdoses, directions come and go. 


It's like, I got it, I got it, then it's gone. Which is why men have such a, men, in chem sex, also will take this with a PD-5 inhibitor and they gain that erection for the entire weekend, which will itself be problematic. 


And of course, they never have orgasms, because you're activating the power of sympathetic control at the, essentially, expense of the sympathetic activation, top down sympathetic activation that would come to produce an orgasm. 


But that's not the point. The point is you're having sex all weekend. Sex doesn't necessarily end with an orgasm. At least not in chem sex markets. So, what about cannabinoids? Let me give you a take-out message at the end. 


What about cannabinoids? What are they? Who are they? There's always been a sense, unlike with psychedelics, that consumption of cannabinoids has sexual effects. Look at the reefer madness one. I mean, it's not a pill, but women cry for it, men die for it, drug craze, abandon. 


Look at the one on the right-hand side. Weird orgies, wild parties, unlimited passions. And for women, shame, horror, and despair. Now, since antiquity, cannabinoids have been used, there are three specific species and then a ton, hundreds of hybrids. 


There's indica, citadel, ruteralis, and hybrids of them, which, I don't know if this modern cannabinoid eugenicists have been able to give you guaranteed 25% THC or 10% CBD and the rest of it are other alkaloids that are in there, some of which are also psychoactive, or at least active, to do something in the nervous system. 


They can use the sedenthenotics, which is actually the way they're classified, because cannabis has a sedenthenotic, but they're axiolidics, they're hyperphagia. Not putting weight on, you smoke some dope, you're gonna eat lots and lots and lots of potato chips. 


They're analgesic, they're anti-inflammatory. And you can smoke it, you can eat it, you can drink it as a macerated extract. I mean, the one in the middle there are gummies that you can buy in Prague. 


There's also a chocolate which contains unsaturated and ethanolamines that both activate cannabinoid receptors and increase endogenous anandamide, which is itself an endogenous or endocannabinoid that your brain makes. 


Remember this, if a plant extract has an effect on you, it means that you have receptors for an endogenous neurotransmitter substance that does the same thing. So there are many ways to get it in, and many uses throughout history. 


So here's cannabis extract used, I mean, medical tests from meds became in Egypt over 4000 years ago to describe extracts of cannabis that we use for sexual, gynecological, and reproductive purposes. 


One of those padmas that you want, new ideas, read old books. For aphrodisiacs, for painful menstrual cramps, for heavy bleeding, painful urination, PMS, pain during sex, nausea during pregnancy, menopause, diarrhea, I'm not exactly sure how it cures diarrhea, postpartum hemorrhages, difficult tub, or the activation of sperm in the zone, which actually does the opposite depending on the dose. 


Like PD-5 inhibitors, local application of tetrahydrocannabinol for the genitals can stimulate nitric oxide. This relaxes with muscle and blood vessels, allowing blood into the corpora and stimulating reaction of the clitoris and penis, and local application, which can be done in a gel. 


Typically it doesn't get into the bloodstream, so the effect is going to be localized to the generals. There are tens of alkoids within all of those different cannabis leaves, especially in the flowers. 


But the ones that are really important that people have been looking at are the ones that are psychoactive. Daltanine, tetrahydrocannabinoid, cannabinol, THC, cannabinol, CBD, and cannabinol, CBN. It doesn't mean the other ones don't work, but they don't work nearly as well in terms of their binding profile on the cannabinoid receptors in the brain than these three. 


These three are the top. And where do they bind? All over the body! But there are two types of receptors, CB1 and CB2. CB2s are found in greater concentration and periphery than in the brain. CD1s are found in greater concentration in the brain than in the periphery, but they're in both places, and especially in the genitals, the little heads, and in the brain, the big head. 


There are two types of endogenous cannabinoids that have been discovered. One is called AEA, which is an andamide. The other is 2A of G. They are all derived from fatty acids. So the fatty acid metabolites act as neurotransmitters within the endocannabinoid system, and they bind, like THC and CBD, to both types of receptors. 


Cannabinoid receptors in the brain are found in the cutting, the attainment, the globus pelvis. These are motor structures. Substantia nigra, which is a motor, which is a place where dopamine's motor system originates. 


The amygdala, the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and the cerebellar cortex. That's the thing at the bottom there that is massively stained green. There's moderate binding throughout the entire cortex. So what do we know about sexual behavior? 


Well, there's kind of level two to five evidence in females, and that's both women and the species I tend to study, female rats. What we know is that acute low doses of cannabis, and this would be smoking or cannabis coming, both CBD and THC coming from gummies, or baking it into brownies, whatever you'd like to do. 


It increases sexual arousal desire and the quality of orgasm in women. So we had people today earlier talk about orgasm dysfunction, and, oh well, it's just how to smoke a joint. But what joint? A joint from the 1960s, where the THC content was about 4%, or a joint that you could get in Canada at any pot store, since it's legal there, that has a 25% THC content. 


different. Spoke a quarter of the joint. It's like fentanyl. Don't take a lot of it. It ain't morphine. High dosing to the point of sedative effects on motor function and increased anxiety and inhibit sexual response. 


You've got a dose window, a low dose window where you're going to accentuate and a higher dose window where you want to lie down on your couch and the reggae music. The direct dose response studies, the RCTs of THC and other cannabinoids have not been done yet in humans to my satisfaction because we need dose responses. 


Not just one dose, dose response studies to see where that break point is and to see where that break point is in different populations of women and men. Topical gels that contain THC and CD or in the pipeline. 


One just opposite this hall. Peripheral THC can increase vaginal and clitoral blood flow. And again, not get into the nervous system to get you high and want to listen to a radioactivity. What about rats? 


It's the same situation. Low doses of THC increase the lordosis posture of females and increases solicitations. It increases a palliative ultrasonic vocalizations that they chirp and make when they're really horny. 


That's also indicative of orgasm-like responses in rats that are prone to a low dose of estradiol with or without progesterone. An ant divide increases sexual motivation in a one-way test, so the one quicker to get to a male. 


The inverse agonist for motive also increases lordosis and solicitations of motivation. High doses of THC, as in humans, inhibit solicitations in lordosis. Why? Because we evolved. The mammalian brain has the same capacity for virtually all drugs. 


High doses of THC inhibit solicitations of lordosis, and CB1 receptors in the midbrain are downregulated during estrus. So what does that mean? That means that you're less likely to have your own endocannabinoids producing a sedative effect. 


And more likely, perhaps, to have them be part of the system that enhances sexual desire. In males, again, level 4 to 5, level 2 in rats, acute low doses increase sexual arousal, desire, the quality of orgasm in men, and can increase the duration of intercourse, but they ejaculate and have orgasms at the end of it. 


So it's not an anorgasm that you're having, it's simply letting them last longer, which, probably in some cases, might really be a good thing. High dosing to the point of sedative effects on motor function, and increased anxiety equally. 


prohibit that. Chronic dosing sensitizes desire that seems to decrease erectile function, which is virtually what alcohol does. Notably, high chronic dosing decreases gonadotropin stimulation of testosterone synthesis. 


That's what I was saying. Maybe the low dosing might increase chromatogenesis, but the high dosing is going to knock down. And direct dose response studies of RCTs and THC or other cannabinoids have not been conducted, at least to my satisfaction, in human males, mostly because there's no dose response and time response. 


And you need those critically to know exactly what to do. So it's almost like we're still in phase one to try to figure this out. In male rats, acute sub-cronic administration of C.B.1 agonists impairs both intermissions and ejaculations, but these are high doses. 


Acute administration of C.B.1 antagonists Induce erections reduce the number of intromissions necessary for ejaculation and reduce ejaculation indices. This would almost sound like it's in the opposite direction, yeah. 


But the inverse agonist remote event increases amounts of intromissions in sexually sluggish males, so it really is a dose-response effect and we've simply been using way too high doses in rats to figure this out. 


High doses of THC inhibit catatrophon stimulation testosterone synthesis, just like in humans. But an aniline applied to the penis stimulates erections, because there are CD1 receptors in the corpus cavernosa. 


So it's not a, like you could look and say, okay, wait a minute, what's the take on that? The take on message is, it's a dose-response effect. We have not looked at low doses. An aniline on the other hand, at least in peripheral, has a stimulatory effect. 


So what are the low-dose cannabinoid actions? Well, they're really doing kind of what Erwin talked about earlier today. They're decreasing inhibition while at the same time increasing excitation. THC or dodgestid adenoids reduce serotonin release in the prefrontal cortex. 


So that's reduced behavioral inhibition, perhaps even reduced anxiety from the amygdala. Since your prefrontal cortex is not saying don't go there, don't go there, don't do that, don't do this. So the amygdala is not going that way. 


The amygdala has got that way. No problem. I'll go there. Sure. And THC or dodgestid adenoids block the GABA synthesis and those interneurons that normally inhibit dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area. 


So you're getting disinhibited dopamine transmission, which means you're decreasing inhibition, exciting excitation. And those two things are not going to shrink you from inhibition to excitation, especially if you are repeating the 10. 


Because if you're not, the dose response might be different. So the results of the increased arousal increase the 10. And this includes the desire, potentially increased enjoyment. High-dose cannabinoid actions, on the other hand, produce sedation and ataxia, and in some cases, anxiety. 


Because they have the opposite effect in the amygdala. So there's nothing worse than a paranoid person, a paranoid pothead sitting in the corner, chopping on, doing it out of the munchies, and feeling that the police are going to be at the door in two seconds. 


That's not a happy state of affairs. But you become tolerant to that. And that's another thing that people don't look at. Tolerance and cruise, especially for these high-dose THC retinas that you're now producing. 


So if tolerance and cruise, what is that? What means now, you shimmed in the dose response off to the right. So you should biphase and kill out the dose response. And sedation. produced by the inhibition of inhibition. 


And inhibition, produced by the inhibition of excitation. Which is happening with the same mechanisms, but spreading into the brain, spreading throughout the brain. So of course, one of the take home messages here is that you need to have a low dose effect, but everybody's low dose effect is gonna be a little bit different. 


So you can say, oh, just take half of this joint. Okay, well, what's in the joint? What's the THC to C1D ratio? Do you know? Yeah? You might know, because they typically post that on the side of the package that you're buying your marijuana in, yeah? 


But who looks? Who even knows to look? No, what about the pelvic floor? Obviously, sexual climax orgasm is kind of like an earthquake for the peritoneal pelvic floor muscles. You can see the women and men, and you saw this yesterday in another talk. 


Well, CBD helps with pelvic floor toning. High resting pelvic floor muscle tone make orgasms way more difficult for women. Pelvic pain makes arousal-desired orgasms more difficult, if possible at all. 


CBD vaginal and anal suppositories are being now created to treat pelvic pain. They can come as lubricants, they can come with the top of the greens and lotions, CBD oils, tinctures, and syrups. The idea is that you reduce the muscle tension, reduce spasms, the effects are apparently enhanced with local THC. 


So THC and C1 have different binding profiles of C1 and C2 receptors. They both exist in the pelvic floor. So you're doing something that people don't quite understand yet as a mechanism of action, but that is reducing pelvic pain and reducing pelvic tension, which may give you orgasm damage. 


You don't necessarily need it to go to your brain for that. Your brain is now responding to the fact that you're not clenched, but you're open. And this just in, thanks to Suzanne Longwell, female orgasm disorder has been added officially to the list of medical boundaries in Connecticut and Illinois, for which medical companies can use it. 


And number two, excuse me. Man's office is helping groups in New Jersey do this as well. It is approved at the board level in New Mexico. So imagine if you get a diagnosis of F.O.D. You can now, in those states, legally obtain cannabis. 


So here you take home messages and then we'll have some time for questions. Low doses of cannabinoids, especially THC, appear to facilitate sexual arousal, desire for orgasm in females and males. However, higher doses induce sedation and caxia. 


and or augmented anxiety. Although CBD does not appear to indeed those particular psychological effects, it can relax pelvic floor muscles and reduce pelvic pain locally, which is going to impact the brain. 


It can happen when it's facilitated through a decrease in serifone-induced inhibition and or an increase in excitatory dopamine transmission. What about psychedelics? They act as director and direct agonists for 5H21A and 2A receptors, some like LSD, nescomidin and dimethyl tryptamine also acts as agonists and dopamine type 2 and alpha-2 or adrenergic receptors. 


Big carburetins like carbine act as MAO inhibitors. So you can see that you're tweaking the system, but tweaking it in such a way that it seems to produce, at least with micro doses, a longer term effect to ameliorate depression, which is a major, major co-morbidity with sexual disorders. 


On their own, hallucinogenic doses of psilocybin, that's the BMT and LSD inhibit sexual responses. But micro dosing appears to equilibrate it. Seritinergic and nomenergic functions. Again, that may help reduce the depression. 


MPMA or ecstasy may stimulate sexual arousal and desire by its actions as a dopamine transport inhibitor. So you're gonna suck the dopamine back into the hallucinabular terminal. You're actually allowing it to go have an effect in the extracellular space. 


But it can also delay it for an orgasm by its actions as a serotonin B-uptake inhibitor, or CERT. So again, it may be dose-dependent. So if you say, oh, take two of these and you're gonna have great sex, another person does, but can't have an orgasm. 


So one person's aphrodisiac can definitely be another person's dysfunction. Long-term micro dosing with psychedelics appears to increase attention, sensitivity, and mindfulness toward sexual stimuli, possibly toward everything, and reduce depression. 


that six-month follow-up of people who might be docilicided reported fewer central dysfunctions and an overall enhancement of central functioning in addition to increased quality of life overall and had greater efficacy than acetylopne. 


So we're still early days with all of this but I can imagine coming to ISWIS ten years from now where this is going to be a real science and that is opening up a brand new window for all of us to think about and perhaps it will be a therapeutic window to treat sexual disorders. 


Thank you so much for your attention. We're ready for questions. Okay. We're coming up. Good first. Please turn on the mic. Is there a button? Ah, there's a, no. I don't know. Yell. Okay, thank you so much for asking me that. 


I really appreciate that you brought up a few ways of potentially giving some of the purposes of the normal life, especially in this era of the centuries. Sometimes acting as a provider can think this will trigger me pain and this will trigger fatigue, and I'm all for legalization, but I'll be honest, I was kind of hoping you were thinking about regulation in terms of the very high potency. 


Maryland has not just commercially available, but I don't think that we have to quickly source or the safety data of the super, super high potency, and it gives some sense of parent with psychotic episodes in people who are predisposed, and maybe do not look over in their healthy kids, especially in a young male. 


Anyway, I wanted to know if you had any thoughts about as we, you know, have these great breakthroughs in being provided for people with orgasm dysfunction or sexual dysfunction, is anyone going on the other side to regulate, to make sure that things are getting out of the dispensary are safe for them? 


They have a warning on them about potential risks, because unfortunately I see a lot of people coming in with cannabis, hyperemesis, but get these million dollar GI brokeups, but I'm like, did anyone ask how much potch he's smoking? 


And they're like, no, we didn't think of them, but maybe that before next lab, you know? I mean, think about it. I mean, imagine if you're just talking about alcohol, a doctor, otherwise, right? So what a low dose. 


And I say, you know, say you have a rapid ejaculator, okay? So somebody tells you at a party, well, just have a couple drinks of wine, have a couple glasses of wine. Does it delay your ejaculation? Well, what is alcohol? 


It's a low-glide aesthetic. going to delay your ejaculation. It's also going to reduce the volume, but they don't tell you that. So I think the warning labels, especially when, you know, I mean, you know, many of you in the audience, your parents, your parents' cannabis had 4% THC, right? 


You want to cheat your tongue movements. Oh, yeah, man, this is great. Yeah, well, that was 4%, not 25%, yeah? And, you know, like fentanyl, we're global, because fentanyl's a great opioid. It's a great new opioid receptor agonist. 


Just use one thousandth of the dose that you would typically use morphine for, then you won't die. But there's nobody who's pushing the drug or using the drug as a filler for, you know, somebody's cocaine who knows anything about that. 


And like you said, the dispensers don't know either, but they like to think of me as a pharmacist. So it's really, it's really quite annoying. And I think you're right, in the future, we're gonna look at TXD, the CBD, the ratio of those, we're gonna look at the doses. 


The doses, I mean, again, it's hard to write, you know, 25% of what, of the packet? How much of the packet? I don't know, but it's spoken. Well, no, not necessarily. You might be sedated listening to regularly. 


You might be passed out for two days. Yeah, so there's these warning labels, I think you're gonna need to be on there, or we're gonna need to be able to put doses like in gummies directly in, that we know how much for gummy, like vitamin C, is actually in the actual gummy. 


Okay, let's go to the sun, and she's leaving. She's not leaving, sun's leaving. I have a question, just a little answer. Please go to the, oh, you'll not have answered it, okay. Well, thank you. So, Heather, wait, now it's your turn. 


Let's stay in there, don't go away. Thank you for your conference, it was very, very interesting. You briefly mentioned capsets, and I know it's something that many of us are unaware of. My understanding of capsets is that it's chemicals used for sexual injuries. 


There's different motivations, there's different barriers. My question is that, following reading about capsets, most did not, they used MDMA, very few used cannabis. Right. I just wanna ask you, what could be the use of knowing more of what you're talking about to help this population that is underserved, that we don't even know, one of their barriers is judgment of professionals, they don't even tell us. 


I just want to know a little bit more about chem sex and what more information that we can get from this to extrapolate to that population. I think everybody here is probably really interested in that, but the problem is there's so many, I should say so many, there's probably about seven or eight different drugs that are used in different combinations depending on the subaltern. 


Somebody who's ketamine with their methamphetamine, with a little bit of MDMA, they're always drinking and smoking at the same time. So you've got that group, then you've got the other group that doesn't use ketamine but uses GHB as the seven. 


So you've got different doses, and they use different amounts with unknown quality. You don't know if it's cut to 3% or if it's cut to 93%. So a lot is not known, and we know about this only because people OD. 


Why do they OD? because all psychomotor stimulants increase your core temperature and because they're acting as stimulants if you have physical heart condition whatsoever you'll get a stroke and so these men go to hospital they're like okay what happened get a stroke okay 23 years old like what are you talking about you got a stroke well again you got a stroke you know a major myocardial event right at 23 so then they know and that's how we kind of begin to know about this but the idea really for men as such and men is to maintain erectile function okay it's not to enhance orgasm quality or anything like that it's not a party where everybody's having a chance with everybody else so if I understand also reading about the motivations is more motivational than just that of course but I was just curious that if we know more about what you're talking about it can help this population and it could but again you know the alcohol may mitigate a little bit against the amphetamine because you're mixing your depressant with your stimulant but the alcohol can also kill you too so I mean yeah the motivations are okay can I just weigh in for one second as a clinician to say that I think a lot of these questions and concerns will be addressed by us in this room because we are taking care of patients who are curious and we are open-minded so they will hopefully feel less afraid to speak to us but there's tons of data Jim I'm sure you know on how long it will take for a patient or client to bring up a sexual concern and it can be up to a decade so it is incumbent upon us and I'm so excited to see how full this room is to learn the science to learn how who the experts are and to make sure that we ask clear open-ended non-judgmental questions of our patients and clients So we can guide them, 


because the guidance is not going to come from the regulatory bodies, as far as I'm concerned, in terms of clinical usage, nor from the wanting to be helpful barista or wedista, right? Which is where people are getting their information from. 


So I'm sorry to interrupt, but I felt like I really wanted to... Or so convenient for that matter. Yes, exactly. So much misinformation. Thank you so much for this amazing, I wish you well samples for all. 


You're going to make me blush. So I'm a gynecologist. I'm wondering about the data. Is there data about using any of these in adolescence with elevated schizophrenia? And I know Dr. Gerber wants to... 


Not really, and that would be really important. Do we know if their systemic absorption wear would affect their brain in the same way? That's right. Again, I would imagine systemic absorption will affect their brain because it's systemic, right? 


It's also going to go everywhere else. So the question is, you know, would you use a low dose of THC? Well, they may say, well, I already smoked over to make it stop anywhere, right? Which, if you ask the question, they might give you the answer that allows you to say, OK, well, this has other effects. 


Maybe you're going to be able to have a pill or a gun that you can take specifically for that, so you don't have to get the rest of the systemic effects. Well, I guess the question is, the low doses that were used for pelvic pain in adult women, did they measure systemic absorption? 


Yeah, they do. And you don't get a whole lot of systemic absorption from ointments and cream by nerve blood locally. OK. Yeah. Good. OK. But again, if they're already doing it, they're already self-medicated, that tells you something. 


They'll tell you what to do with their society. Thanks for that discussion. It's very interesting. Obviously, the level of your knowledge about these doctors is not unbelievable. I can't go ahead. Oh, yes. 


Two comments. So I'm a psychiatrist, for those of you who don't know, and have done a lot of work in depression, reproductive psychiatry, and sexual dysfunction. And at the head shops, women are made to use cannabis, THC, for their knowledge of drug pregnancy. 


And we now know that that is a big problem for the infant development group. And the same thing that I have seen with regard to drug use, let's just say, especially cannabis, as we're at a university, is chronic daily use of these very high-level THC products. 


And as you see, we have a lot of drug use. said, we see all those negative effects. And so I think one of the parts of this I wonder about is if there was regulated low dose THC products, would you suggest or would it be offered then as needed before sex as opposed to every single day? 


And once people start using stuff like this every day, that's what we see with the people who come in, who smoke multiple times a day every day. And we know they're impaired in multiple, multiple ways. 


Same thing with people who drink all day long, right? On the other side, I have been involved with a lot of new drug development for treatment of depression with a lot of different mechanisms of action. 


And one of those was... SK, and you had to observe people for two hours after they administered the nail product. And what we would find is that some, they'd be doing fine, this would be helping their mood, I mean really quickly, before they walked out after the two hours, but it doesn't last, right? 


And then sometimes they would just, out of the blue, have a massive panic attack. A horrible paranoia and thoughts about things. And when people are not being observed doing this, bad things can happen. 


We're also doing a study using a silicin, short acting, silicin that converts to psilocybin, which is also very short acting and an injection, in women with postpartum depression. And we're having to observe them for eight total hours, so about four hours when it's active and at four more hours. 


And there is a dose response known for this drug, okay? And so we're using a dose that looked like it provoked a mystical experience and was effective, versus a very low dose of the drug, because the FDA doesn't want us to use it closely. 


And very positive things are coming out of that, at least anecdotally from my own experience with patients. And we'll see in these phase two trials. But I do think that there are products like that that are being looked at. 


But unfortunately, once people have an idea that they may be helpful, they aren't used in the appropriate way or doses. And I'm not sure how we can help people sort of understand that, because everybody can't really talk to me. 


I don't know if there's even going to be an FDA in two years. So one of the problems is that, you know, we used to have really good regulatory regulation over doses, and people looked at dose responses and they did these things. 


And, yeah, I mean, if you go to the, you know, the internet industry, the sexual wellness industry, the town there, you know, there's, you know, it'd be, this would give me directions like a rock. Yeah, it'll also give you pride because I'm like a rock. 


You need to go to the hospital for it. So, you know, is there any platform, or do you label on the bottom of your Airbnb? Of course not, because it's an herbal product, and it's sold in herbal health stores, so you don't need a black company. 


You bypass the whole FDX. Oh, cannabis is a bad thing. Mushrooms and peyote tech, they're all herbal products. They're grown in the wild. Okay, but... And then they make the life. They're going to have to regulate these. 


When I engage, let's do this as the last question. This is the last question. Well, I'll give everybody after me, if you want. Hi, thank you again for the presentation. My question is around dosing and strategy. 


So when you are doing the low dosing, for example, for psychedelics, and you're talking about this cortex-free wiring, is the goal to utilize the psychedelics to have them rewire their brain to eventually get off of it, and to be able to proceed without it for feeding and have continued sexual satisfaction? 


Or is that a medication or strategy that they're going to need to use in the long term? So yeah, that's a great question. The problem, again, with the concept of rewiring is a concept of a permanent effect. 


Because when you rewire your house, you are permanently rewiring your energy source that's going to different rooms in the house. So the idea of rewiring is that for the brain, you know nothing about what is actually rewired. 


So if you were to see, again, a picture of the house, and you've done acid, and somebody says, oh, which one of these could look like a face? And you're also doing an FMRI. Do you see rewiring of the visual cortex in those who have had LSD experiences, who are now having their visual cortex activated, when they say, oh, yeah, the house looks like a face, versus those that never had that experience who say, 


you know, click on the next one, because the house doesn't look like a face. You need those studies to see the permanent rewire. We don't know the answer to that. So I think it's really early days for this whole concept. 


But the idea of rewiring that, of course, is that you have a permanent change. So is the permanent change, is that what's decreasing the depression? Right? And making you more mindful, and not seeing barriers. 


between people, but seeing us all as one big group of human beings, it could be. But we need to really concentrate on that, and know that, and not just say, oh well, what is the spiritual world for us? 


Because that's empty garbage. I hate to end on a negative comment, so I'll end on a positive one, yeah. We're all alive, we're happy, we're together, and I think we should just be thankful for that. 
