

The belly button is painful when they touch, and sometimes patients know it can even be painful. And then you can test. If you look at the poster, there is a picture of just taking the Q-tip, and we just touch it to the belly button, and if it is aversive, so if it is negative, if they're just like, that's fine, it's whatever, it's neutral, that's fine. 


It's real sensation to you. No, not everybody does. Yeah, and we do it, so we assess all of our patients with bovoscopy. Um, here. So it's showing, she's just touching. We assess every patient who gets a bovoscopy, which is every patient with a vulva, everyone gets a bovoscopy. 


Now, we started doing every patient. We ask about umbilical hypersensitivity. We only see it with neuroproliferative vestibulodynia, or if there's pain caused by a spinal issue. It's that the spinal thalamic, you know, crosstalk between, if you look over here, the crosstalk. 


You can ask them, or you can test for it. And so when you put it in, you say, do you not like this? Is it neutral? Is it aversive? Is it negative? Is it painful? Or just like, oh. And oftentimes they know, you ask them, they go, yeah, I don't like people touching my belly button. 


And it's like a magic trick, because the vestibular anesthesia test, you're only putting on the vestibule. You're not putting on the cream. Okay. Right. So here you're putting, this is the vestibule of the vulva. 


So you numb this area. You're not touching the umbilicus. So you numb this, and then you repeat your q-tip test and you repeat your umbilical test. And your belly button doesn't feel aversive anymore. 


It's like a magic trick. Okay. First, yeah. Yes. After then. Okay. So, and the, this is the vestibule. Yeah. So what is your question about the umbilical? Yeah. How do you touch it? Yeah. Q-tip inside. 


Yeah, cotton swab, cotton swab, cotton swab inside. Or you can ask the patient, put your finger in your belly button. After you numb this area, tell them to do it again and say, do you feel the same? 


And they'll say, no, it feels fine. It's crazy. What do you say? Numb this area, what do you mean? This is the best of you all. Best of you all, and will you find cream? Yes, so in our office, we have a cream that's compounded. 


And then it's benzocaine, 20%, lidocaine, 8%, tetrachane, 6%. But you can do... We have 9% lidocaine, yeah. Yeah, so I mean, it works better than just lidocaine. It's a combination, but and you just, you apply it with the Q-tip. 


There's a lot of osteo, there's glands. So you have to kind of, sometimes you have to apply it, let it sit, go back a couple of minutes later, apply some more. And then after it's numb, you repeat your Q-tip test. 


Sometimes you have to do it three times with the application. Sometimes it's easier, sometimes it's harder. But then, you know, you press, and now this area should be really not painful. And then you also do the umbilicus. 


Ah, man. How did you find that? It wasn't me. I think, if I remember correctly, Andrew Goldstein, who is an OB-GYN, he noticed it and he mentioned it to my boss, Erwin Goldstein, who has spoken a lot here at this conference, to Erwin, and so we started adding it to our standardized vulvoscopy assessment. 


So that's why, you know, it's only in like the last, maybe six months, that we've done it for every single patient. So that's why we don't have as much data. But I can tell you, we don't see it in remotely mediated. 


It's really interesting, yeah. Now, are you guys all from Japan? Okay, I thought I heard. I saw one of you speak before or had a question. My name's Mia. Hi, it's nice to meet you. Hi, nice to meet you. 


Are you all urologists? Okay. Yeah, I'm a urologist. You're a where? I'm a gynecologist. Okay, wonderful. We have urologists. Uh, do you guys have social media? Like, do you have a way to stay connected? 


Yes, yes, yes. Messenger? Uh, we can do Facebook. Yeah, Facebook, Instagram. And it is a clitoris. I looked online. I don't remember. I think Etsy has some now. This was a year ago. This is an artist in Sweden. 


Yeah. Yes, but it's, um, here's, I'll fill it out. Because it's not my real name. This is me. Yeah. Do you want to show them? Mia White. W-E-I-T. You guys don't have Instagram, right? No. Instagram? Do you have Instagram? 


Instagram? Yeah. So this one, I have Mia White News. W-E-I-T-I-T-U-S. Thank you. Uh, Mia. Now, it looks like... It looks like... I know, it does. Yeah but this one, I know, the whole thing. This one is from Etsy and here this one, yeah thank you. 


Yeah but you didn't, uh, you're missing. All right, take off the E. W-E-I-P. Is this Facebook? Yes. Oh okay, this one needs a space, sorry. Oh thank you. Yeah, I'm happy to stay in touch if you guys have any questions. 


Very interesting. Yeah, if it is. I came one year ago and since then I've been like very involved. And how do you treat it? Great question. So yeah, some question here said as soon as possible, I will do vestibulectomy or not and you would answer some typical hormone or something like that. 


So at my practice, with Dr. Goldstein, he recommends vestibulectomy to all patients where we suspect neuroproliferative, yeah. Proliferation, because of proliferation. Because of what? Because of proliferation. 


Neuroproliferative, yeah. Yeah, for neuroproliferative. Yeah, because if the vestibulodynia is actually hormonally mediated vestibulodynia, you can treat with hormones, but for this one, you know. So I've been talking. 


So tell them what's not work. Correct. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So probably surgery, but I've been talking to some clinicians here who don't have access to the surgeons because there's not many who do it in the United States and they say that they treat it okay with different topical pain medications. 


So I have to find out more about that because it would be nice to have, no, we have soft wave, we love soft wave, not for this. But no, like a cream of amitriptyline, which is a tricycline antidepressant, and ketamine or gabapentin. 


I don't know. have to find out more information from a practitioner who says that she uses that and that it works for most of her patients and that they're able to have sex and because they just they can't do surgery they don't have anyone there. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, recently, Dr. Augustine tests about treatment of neuroproliferation patient to use ESW, not our shockwave. Shockwave. Shockwave. So, we use shockwave a lot in our office. 


We use it mostly for erectile dysfunction and we use it pre-op for surgery either for a penile implant or for neuroproliferative vestibulodynia because shockwave helps with wound healing. Hard tissue. 


Well, it helps with reducing inflammation, improving wound healing. So we usually do at least one session for our patients before they go to surgery and hopefully they have less pain and need less opioids. 


But to my knowledge, it doesn't actually treat or proliferate of the stability. And I also, like, I have plantar fasciitis, so I shockwave my feet, he replaced his hips. It works. It's amazing. I didn't really believe it until I did it on myself. 


We have one. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. What kind of shockwave do you guys have? I have, and it's short, like, stars. Is it electro-hydraulic, or I think there's a magnetic kind, do you know what it is? No, there's a shockwave. 


Of course, it's used from water. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I've just found one. Yeah, cool. It works very well. Now, you guys are already in practice, or you're students, like, you're residents. Yeah, we are so old. 


We are old. How old are you guys? 44. Okay, nice, nice. Very nice. Yeah, okay. Wonderful. Thank you. And do you do a lot of sexual medicine? Yeah. Is there a Japanese sexual medicine society? Okay, yeah. 


How do you think, you know, since someone mentioned today, or maybe it was yesterday, that, like, the United States is very behind in terms of research for sexual medicine compared to Europe. How weird is Japan? 


Very, very weird. Behind. Behind it. Maybe Asia. Asia area. Actually, we don't talk about the sex of people. Sure. Of course. Of course. It's very secret. And, yeah. A very minor conference. Okay. Sexual medicine. 


Thank you so much. Thank you. Yeah, and reach out to me. You know, you have my info, so I'm happy to answer questions. Thank you. Thank you. And safe travels back. How long are you guys staying? Oh, tomorrow. 


Tomorrow. We all are remote. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
