

I was going to say, we were excited to, we always are excited to be at the Ishwish meeting and sometimes we see folks that we face familiar faces and it's really wonderful to see people here that we don't know. 


I don't know if anybody in the room is awesome and is very happy. So was it okay to go on to introduce yourself? That would be wonderful. So maybe just say your name, where you're from, and your connection if you have to. 


You know sort of how you heard about us in this board, but just for sure. I'm sorry. Sure. Kristin Wolf, I'm an OBGYN from Colorado. I currently work for MIDI, which does a lot of survivorship protocols and management and it's a big passion of theirs. 


So yeah, just here through the conference and Mayo Clinic has saved my mom's life, so I appreciate that. She's a bio myosarcoma of inferior vena cava. It's one of the only places in the world that knew how to take care of her. 


So she's four years out from that, so thanks for that. I appreciate it. I'm Lee Wall. I'm a nurse practitioner with UNC in North Carolina in Eurogine. Hi, good morning everyone. My name is Shiho Setokuchi. 


I'm from Japan. I'm a urologist. Thank you. Hi, my name is Jennifer. I'm an M1 at Carl Illinois College of Medicine. I work because of the data from the end and so I see a lot of questions. I'm from Berkeley, California, where I was inspired by Ishwish. 


I did a fall course last year at my home and started a cancer care plan for sexual meds. So you're an OBGYN? Yeah, I'm an OBGYN. I'm Shannon Bowin, an OBGYN from North Lomensodia. I was just asked by a small community hospital and they just asked the cancer care center to ask me, so they're saying the patient was released. 


So we're developing for them. Yeah. Hi, I'm Lomensodia from North Lomensodia. I'm from North Lomensodia. Hi, I'm Jessica Bell. You're a guy in PA in sexual medicine and from South Lomensodia. And we have a cancer center, and I have a fair solution to all sexual meds. 


So, good work for all practices. Big rollers from a nurse practitioner in oncology and a practice at Providence Blanks Cancer Institute in Portland work it. Yeah, and I was, I don't know, got a clock, one clock, and I was pressed. 


are just sexual health care for cancer patients. I'm Madeline Parnaker, and I'm an OB-GYN in Indiana, Nevada. That's actually what I did in the college department. And you were ready to go to a partnership there? 


I don't know why I was here. Hi, I'm Brandy Williams. I'm a pharmacist by training. I work for Stels in the Medical Affairs. And I have personal history, my sister and her kids. All of them have some risk for breast cancer. 


And one of them is actually diagnosed with non-unched bones as well as breast cancer 10 years ago. So I would be interested in that. I'm Tim Litch. I'm an OB-GYN in the East Bay, Northern California. 


I met a partner in the medical practice. I've been in practice to deliver babies to surgeries. I'm Jessica Fuchet. I work in a small world community in Southwest Michigan. And I'm just here to learn more. 


My name is Tanya Tywell. I'm a gynecologist in Titusville, Florida, her neighbor. And I'm a eight-year breast cancer survivor. And I've started a survivorship group in Titusville. It's small. And most of me attract the breast cancers. 


But just past two weeks, we've had some of the neurologic cancers come. I'd like to learn more and help out this time. Hi, I'm Mia. I'm a women's health nurse practitioner in San Diego at San Diego Social Research. 


Carol, I'm a GY nurse practitioner. I live in Louisville, California. Okay, and I have to tell you, when we started doing this, we were like, is somebody gonna come to the breakfast? And I really hope that people come to the breakfast. 


We need to get more chairs, so I'm super excited. So why don't we go back here? Okay, I'm really new from Chicago. Cook up me, help me. I'm gonna start the sexual medical, sexual health critical. Women, as you always do in office, this next month, and then I'm going to move out, right with the cancer survivors here. 


So, that's why I'm here. I love you a lot, I thank you so much. Thank you so much. Hi, my name is Lauren. I am, I'm with you, I am outside of Philadelphia. I do menopause medicine, though, and I don't really have very many practitioners in my area to do that, so I find myself getting all the complicated stuff, which I'll be doing for a few months, which is today, just to get the cancer survivors to sit down. 


Fair learning, Lauren. Hi, I'm Amanda Olson, I'm a public health physical therapist, and I work with them throughout the duration, and I'm working on finding education on sexual orientation and education, so we have more populations. 


For you, I do want to call on the department to help with the mental health program and just try to get going more and better. Hi, I'm Christina Orson, I'm from Long Beach, California. I'm the creator of Sexy Survivors, a pleasure-based platform for female cancer survivors. 


Hi, I'm Christina Galvin. I'm a nurse practitioner from the University of Rochester. I work in the Lomax Cancer Institute. I do breast cancer survivorship, so I have a breast cancer survivorship clinic, and then I also do a sexual wellness as well for any female cancer survivor within the area. 


We've started with just our service, but we don't want to take anybody in our area. Hi, I'm human Parker. I'm a nurse scientist from the University of Arkansas, a medical scientist. I am currently working with young breast cancer survivors and piloting an intervention right now to improve their sexual health. 


Thank you. Hi, I'm Melissa Curran. I'm a medical student from the University of Miami. Male killer tool present for us. Thank you. to research the controversy. She has a central office. That is a little bit of work. 


I'm currently in the high work at University of Rochester. I'm a student at the University of Rochester, and I'm a professor at the University of Rochester. Sunila, Sunila, Sunila, may I ask you a question? 


And, uh, sex and cancer, so I guess it's a special day that we're just going to be on. Hi, I'm Karen, so I'm a New York gynecologist, and I've been working with Andy Anderson, so over the years, I've been getting more and more of these, uh, social health patients, so I'm interested in more. 


My name's Rachel Roberts. I'm from Duke Cancer Institute. I'm a nurse practitioner in breast oncology, and we're restarting a last sexual health clinic for oncology patients. Hi, I'm Anna Mosqueda. I'm an OBGYN in Houston, Texas. 


I just started my job with the University of Texas in Houston, and I'm going to do a clinic and I'm going to give them a hug. I do want to reach out to the breast cancer funders and then off to some of their patients. 


A lot of guys here today. So how often do you guys end up seeing in-humital occupations, you know, after they, sometimes complications of treatment for one cancer that puts them at risk for another cancer? 


So we had decided, and maybe you should talk and we'll understand that for something. It's probably going to be hard to figure out. I want you guys to have a little bit more information. Okay, okay. So we thought today, you know, since we missed the mark, we're sorry, what? 


Oh no, just stay in front of some people to hear you all over the big room. Yeah. Anyway, so what we'd like to do is introduce, Sherry and I both represent the network. So there's a scientific network for female sexual health. 


And that's what we represent, actually, as part of this SIG. So, Okay, so what we thought we would do today, in general, is describe the biophysical, cytosocial model, and that can be, actually, that can also affect, you know, guidance patients as well. 


All the guidance, logic cancers, the breast cancers. We'll do that in general, so that will give us an understanding, but then focusing a little bit on immunologic cancers, and then what happens with them from a sexual standpoint, and then also, how do you remember what are the treatments? 


So, the network is a small organization, and we're basically, basically, we're an interdisciplinary group, and so we have, you know, providers that are clinicians, public health physical therapists, we have therapists, we have nurse practitioners and PAs all come together trying to look at how can we make life better from a sexual health standpoint for women in health care and cancer. 


All right, I'm telling you, I'm really compelling to do this, where it just means, like, it's awesome to see everyone in this room, again, because this is a thing now, right? And when, I'm sort of thinking over the course of the last 15 or 20 years, where, you know, there was, like, literally thinking about my mentors, you know, two or three people in the world that were actually focusing on cancer and sexual health, 


it wasn't thinking, and so it is incredible to see the growing interest in recognizing that this is a very real and dynamic subset of what we do, both in cancer and in sexual medicine, and there's a lot of interaction, a lot of intersection, but there are a lot of things that are particularly unique about onco-psychology, so I don't know how many folks, you know, heard the talk at the end of the day with Erin, 


what I hear talk about her experience as a cancer survivor, I really thought there was nothing, there could not be anything more. more intense and poignant about the biosexual model coming alive, meaning that we know that sensuality, we often say, it's at the center of certain biological, psychological, and interpersonal factors. 


In reality, 95% of the time, the experience that people have is that it is treated purely and only medically. When we look at, when we do systematic reviews of what has been done, care for women, care for people, such as women, is honestly not integrative. 


It is not biopsychosocial. It is almost always only biomedical. And I thought what was probably so powerful about that talk yesterday was that it really sort of brought home the experience that people have, which is to say that if we want to be able to help people move forward and move through sexual recovery, we know that those, that we have to address all of those domains, right, that. 


that all of these domains are essentially impacted and disrupted in the context of cancer treatment. So I'd like Carol to do her thing, but I just want to say that this is really the power of our scientific network, and I'm going to start here, and I want to end here by saying hello to Dr. 


Krantz, that we are the only organization that is committed, one, to figuring out what is evidence-based, right? So we also know that there are lots of people selling lots of things to cancer patients. 


This is a vulnerable population, and people are desperate for help. And the problem is not everybody selling everything is going to be something that we know actually is evidence-based, it works. So this is an organization that is deeply committed to science, and is also deeply committed to figuring out how all of these pieces work together. 


So right, just to the point, every one of these domains is impacted and disrupted by cancer and cancer treatment. And we really are inviting all of you, as we're getting more people interested in how this actually works, I would say, if you are starting a clinic, running a clinic, seeing women, seeing individuals who have had or been treated for cancer, would really invite all of you to consider becoming part of our group as well, 


because I think this is the place where, this is the place where people are doing the science, and you can get the kind of gold standard sort of treatment and evidence for what is best in the population. 


So that's my spiel. Thank you for all coming, and I'm excited for Dr. Cole's lab to talk about. So we're gonna do a couple of cases. I'm gonna do a different here, because I don't want to get in trouble, so it's. 


Can everybody hear me? Okay, all right. So, and some of this will actually relate to gynecologic cancers, too, as you look at what happens to several health and yeast patients as well. So now we've got a 48-year-old, very menopausal woman, okay? 


She has non-hashing lymphoma. This is classic. She is very busy. She's an attorney, she has a husband who's at home. They have two children. She gets retoxin, and she has a great response to it. So everybody's like, good, you're done, okay, goodbye. 


But now, she's postmenopausal, so we see this happen a lot in dying life cancers where they ingest their ovaries, or they keep on going through the radiation, whatever they get, you know, puts them into menopause early. 


She has general urinary syndrome and menopause. She has both insertional and deep dysproia, and of course, she's got all this stress, so all that whole biopsychosocial model is related to this patient. 


So what are our other concerns? So what do you think in this patient, get from home density? Are you familiar with intercolabic cancers? Yeah, absolutely, she did get from home therapy, but this is really important. 


So how do we approach this? So usually in patients, including gynecologic cancers, we'll consider using transdermal, why is that? because of the concerns with the hypercoagulative state of these patients that have cancer. 


So transdermal is where we go. And certainly, if they have a huge dose at all, we're gonna use the desserone. Or maybe a merida IUD is another option here. So depending on the age. So this isn't really an important point too, because if you treat women who are younger, we know that those patients see higher doses than patients that are older. 


Because it's been very clear, women who are under 45 and clearly under 40, if they don't get hormone therapy, there are bad outcomes for them. And at least till age 50. So this is really an important point for all cancers. 


So these are the issues that she's having with genitourinary syndrome immunopause and, of course, financial distress. So let's look at genitourinary syndrome immunopause. So this is important, especially in your patient population, you're gonna come across this. 


So the whole idea is it's genitourinary now, because it isn't just the vulva, right? It's not just the vagina. It includes the clitoris and the vestibular and the oleic breath. So there's this whole complex, this area that gets affected by the lack of estrogen. 


But what's really interesting, it's not just estrogen. The estrogen receptors you'll see are more high. The density is highest in the top of the vagina, but it decreases and it becomes closer to the vulva. 


The estrogen receptors become more dense than you get closer to the vulva. So that becomes the important part of this in how we're treating it. So as you experience, they're gonna have vaginal irritation and dryness and pain and pare or gas. 


So that's a big part of the lack of estrogen. And then we see a lot of UTIs. So in your patients, if they don't have this treated, this is the thing that presents with an example of UTIs. And this is very treatable. 


So giving them type of estrogen can actually reverse this. So they stop having the bladder infections because you're treating this. So, you know about natural moisturizers, right? So, Dr. Panay did a really nice review of all your moisturizers. 


And people get really confused between what are moisturizers and what are lubricants. And I think with our patients, helping them understand this. So, Dr. Panay, there's a nice review that looked at all the different types of moisturizers and the things that we need to think about. 


So, it's not just, you know, here's a moisturizer, you use it, does it have a paraben? Does it have cholesterol? Because these things can be very irritating. Is there a rectal penetration? Because there's different moisturizers that you would want to use for that activity. 


And then the lubricants itself, you know, are wonderful. They give comfort during sexual activity, decrease the pain, because the pain is a driver, right? So, it's really important that we have, you know, in our clinic, we have real masks that our nurses bring in. 


You know, they say, okay, try this, try this. And our products are very low in sales. The names are already less about that, but it's really a big deal. But we're actually in Epic now. I mean, we've highlighted it, so we can border all these things in Epic for our patients, which is really nice, so. 


Do you have a list of products? I'm sorry, do you have a list of products somewhere? I have one slide that has the products, but there's lots of products out there, and we've been able to negotiate with some of the companies so that we can get lower pricing, so that's how we get it. 


So here are our products, okay. The ones that we have now. So what we actually, you know, that is when we order it on Epic, it comes to the patient's phone, then they can open it up, get what they want, they can then either decide to have it mailed to them or go down to the mail store. 


So I said, okay, now I want curbside pickup, okay. Because I don't want people standing around with their vibrator, so now what they're gonna do, just like when you go to the pharmacy, they're gonna have lockers so that, if we send a patient down there to pick up their stuff, it's gonna be all ready for them. 


So these are important aspects of treating patients with sexual health issues, because understanding what they're going through and how you can provide them with the security and confidence that, so that they go down and they don't have to worry about standing in line. 


So the other important part is, you know, when we're treating the vulva and the distal vagina, where most of the symptoms seem to be, that patients understand we have this very nice diagram that we go open with them so that they know, you know, because a lot of how many times you see patients not being willing to use that estrogen if they use a syringe and they squirt it up inside their vagina, and then it all comes out and it doesn't work and it's messy and they don't like it. 


So we say, you know, throw the syringe away. The syringe just doesn't let you know how much they're going to use. And then you should pick your massage, and we loudly call this your face, and they get that, you know, they get that. 


This is my other face, you know, I said, you put my syringe in your face every day, right? Okay, so you're gonna put it on your body and they're like, okay, I got that. So that, you know, we have a lot of, laughter in our clinic, because we try to, you know, make this new, we neutralize it, and we talk about sex, and I've had women who say, oh, I shouldn't be talking about sex. 


I'm like, this is the sex clinic that you want here. So the other important piece of this, oh yeah, this is really important, too. So for your patients, especially gynecologic patients who have to admit surgeries or radiation, you know, the whole idea is that they are petrified to have sex for the first time. 


So this O9 has really been a nice addition, you know. So, you know, it's just a very soft, silicone, stretchy, and you can just put it at the base of the penis, and you can put one, two, three, four, and so it limits the penetration. 


And so it gives them security, and especially high-guiding patients. I actually, we have some acrylic violators, and so I'll actually put the dilator in when they're afraid for the first time and say, look, you do have a vagina, you know, so they can actually. 


see when I put that bad later and bring it out, this is what I have because they think the vagina went away. So it's really nice to get them in a mindset and we do give them the mirror every time so they know what's going on. 


Because the whole idea is that if they have genital urinary syndrome, they're having to develop pelvic floor issues too because they're very afraid that those muscles end so it's like this reaction kind of thing. 


So we try and encourage them to back off from penetrating sexual activity until we say, OK. So we give them the green light. We work with our pelvic floor physical therapists and our sex therapists and we all team up and we figure out. 


And we have meetings every two weeks, they go over cases and say, OK, this one's right, this one's not ready to try and penetrate the sexual activity and bring the partner in. So there's all kinds of doses and prescriptions for topical estrogen and so it's important. 


We try to work with our insurance companies because that becomes important. The other great benefit that we've had and we have it on our list is Mark Cuban. So Cosplus and Mark Cuban, I always say we'll give a little letter to Mark Cuban because he's come up with these nice products that we can afford, especially our Medicare patients. 


It's $30 for topical estrogen where if they try and get it through Medicare, it's going to be like $200 per week. But you're familiar with all the different types. We like the cream because you can put it on your finger, you can massage it in, and then use the moisturizers in the same way. 


And then we talked about where those testosterone or androgen receptors are at the end. And sometimes if we're not getting anywhere with the topical estrogen, we will use DAGA, which has been found to be very helpful. 


And for those of you who can treat breast cancer and. And there have been some studies that looked at if your own rheumatoid inhibitor, will it increase the level of estrogen, and because, you know, testosterone is aromatized to estrogen, the aromatized inhibitors actually block it. 


So small studies, and we're continuing to look at this, and we'll talk about this more at our conference about what can we use in all these different patients in gynecologic and then, of course, our common purpose and therapists are just, you know, the salt and the earth. 


We have six of them just for our team. And so when you're examining them, there's, you know, different levels of pelvic floor, and so the outside level where we see vaginismus mostly, and then also, you know, the internal. 


So when you're doing your pelvic exam, do you frequently then feel those pelvic muscles? You know what they feel like? And because people are selling. And oftentimes before I even put the speculum in, I would say, you know, the pelvic floor is like, I will put a finger in first. 


I'll say, okay. That's accurate. trying to get an assessment of how much they can tolerate before I put a speculum in it. So they really appreciate that. Because I'm kind of like no speculum today, because they're having too much pain. 


And it affects people out, and they'll have constipation. So there's this whole constellation of things that go along with the public floor that is really important for us to understand. And so asking patients about this as well. 


So now we have a 32-year-old active gay female with a little elastic B cell leukemia. She doesn't have any children. She's a software engineer. And so how do we approach her? And this is a patient that I have. 


This is what I see. She went through chemotherapy. She had a penic fever. She then had another biopsy, and she had more disease. So then she went through a transplant. So then she had a breath versus host of the chest, the back, the oral. 


And then she went into remission. But then she developed general anxiety disorders. So you're treating these young patients that they go through all of this. And you can only imagine just from, am I gonna say a lie is a big issue for them. 


So what are her concerns? She's got it all. She's got premature menopause. Will it come back? We'll see. Probably not. So clearly needs treatment. She's exhausted. She had a new partner, so it would be very slow. 


And now she's generally a guy, they disorder. And she's gay. So what's important about this, too, is trying to understand this particular group of people. So in looking at breath versus host just separately, the thing that's interesting is if they have chest, oral, the back, the back, they may also have ulnar. 


So, and this can develop after they're done with their treatment. And so even a year after, two years after, they still develop breath versus host of the vulva. And you can never go wrong with topical estrogen in these patients, because there's this overlap that sometimes you just can't. 


tell is that graft-versus-host or is that just vaginal atrophy. So treat it with estrogen, it's fine, it's not going to be a problem, and then have them come back and look and see whether you need to work with medical oncology to figure out if this needs treatment for graft-versus-host. 


You know, and nowadays a lot of people are perplexed for graft-versus-host, hopefully not going to see a decrease in this, but I still see it, and so it's something to really consider. So, yeah. What do you see on the ball, though, particularly? 


Do you do think it's graft-versus-host? What do you see in the exam? So it's just, it looks irritated, sometimes there'll be erosions, but sometimes there won't. It'll look exactly like gender-leary nervous syndrome. 


It looks like vaginal atrophy. Sometimes if there's an erosion there, then that gives you the clue for sure that this is a problem. Do you treat that in your clinic? So our gynecologist treats vaginal GVH in our clinic at Dana-Farber, who treats that for you. 


So I would say that's something like that's a good example that lots of times the obstetrical said the symptoms are the same and women often have no idea they have vaginal GBH and often although it helps the reality is that you have vaginal GBH in a significant way vaginal estrogen is not out of it so it's really important that you either learn how to treat that or you have somebody that you refer to you will treat that because that is not going to go away with topical estrogen alone and the symptoms are often identical right so that's something that I think and we see this a lot in our younger our younger transplant patients so we work with pheromabic transplant patients at the barber and you know this is like a good example of something that you know this is not garden variety breast cancer and it is definitely something that you are working in cancer center with cancer patients to really sort of have a team and to have a place to send those folks that you know where to see what works yeah absolutely you know and that's right it's important I'm sure all of you have men of all color that you work with it you know and we're you know when we're doing these things we're not doing them in isolation you know before you get your burrows from radiation, 


medications that are on the market for sure and you know there's lots of trial and error and how many of you have consultations with them advising about alcohol You remember way back when Addie was first introduced that it was like, oh my God, you better sign your life away that you're not going to drink, right? 


So now it's changed. And so we tell them, and you can tell them how you do it, that if they use full-dancer and they're going to have some alcohol that night, you just give that dose because we're a little concerned. 


But I always tell them the story of how it came about. You know, full-dancer and why they had those, you know, because they gave men a bottle of wine on an empty stomach. They passed out. Okay, it really leads to us, right? 


So we were glad when they actually did lighten up on those. And so Sherry Goldfarb has been working with full-dancer. There'll be more of this, too, at our conference because in breast cancer patients, what can we use? 


And it describes the amount of cancers that can't have estrogen. What are the other things that we can look at for? I don't use a lot. Do many of you use rheumatoid? Do you think my dad helps with orgasm? 


We use it probably less than like 15 times. Sometimes patients get the script and then they don't fill it. I don't know how they will fill it. But the handful of patients actually have some patients on both. 


Yeah. And those patients actually have done really well. That's probably like three or four people. Yeah. Okay. Good example. I'm sorry. I told them it's more in the moment. Like if it's, that's for the moment. 


Whereas the prevention is for the spontaneous desire. So I feel like they do two different things. Okay. All right. Anybody else? Any comments along the way? Well, we'll talk more. So we did, you know, we didn't do a deep dive on all this because we might not have an opportunity to answer that question. 


Your practices and things that we can. And certainly, I'm sure you're going to be able to answer that. I'm sure you're familiar with adding. There'll be trends to people who have SSRIs. And this young group can be a testosterone. 


I mean, you know, 40% of your testosterone is when you're over it, right? So if you, you know, if they're not responding to the estrogen and they're still having libido issues, testosterone is something that you can think about adding. 


And so there's all different ways to do that as well, which we'll talk about more in a second. All right. So what about this group center? So at Mayo, we actually piloted this questionnaire to see what would be the acceptance when patients would be comfortable answering this questionnaire. 


And the answer was yes. So now it is universal. Everybody who comes to Mayo gets this questionnaire, no matter what department they're going to. And of course, we don't have to. It's voluntary. But it's really nice because you have to know going in the door our patients. 


And so we're still learning a lot. about how, you know, what are the sexual habits or, you know, what is the, how do they express themselves sexually and understanding how we can help them navigate that becomes a really important part of this population. 


Okay, your turn. Thanks. I also just want to sort of put a pause just around the comment about using hormones with our breast cancer survivors and some of our joint cancer survivors because I would just say that, and I know lots of people went to the talk yesterday morning at 8 a.m. 


I, you know, I spend a lot of time choggling between sexual medicine world and oncology world and I would say that if the group in the room were a bunch of oncologists yesterday, I think that there might have been a different, a little bit of a different conversation. 


And I just want to say that the way that, for all of us, I think it's important to recognize we don't have good evidence about safety. We have a progressive. bigger piece of evidence to talk about the fact that it seems like for example we know vaginal estrogen or breast cancer survivors does not look like it increases recurrence that's awesome right but in terms of like for example safety of using testosterone with breast cancer survivors we really don't know and I think it's really important just to again really be driven by what we what we know by good evidence by good science and I would say this is a great example how we have to study this and we need more evidence before we say oh gosh big issues with WHI awesome it's safe for everybody we that is not true right we don't have good evidence for that so I think it's important to be cautious the other thing I just want to point out I'm sure again familiar to most of you it really doesn't matter whether you give someone a prescription for vaginal estrogen if a woman says there's no way I'm using that because it doesn't feel safe that's what caused my breast cancer regardless of whether it's true or not she's not going to use it and then it is incumbent on all of us to say okay I respect that let's figure out together what are some other options that may be helpful and I think that piece is very profound because lots of people are not going to use hormones regardless of whether we give them that prescription or not and so I think just again from that point of view really being able to expand the rapid part and know what some of the options are that are that are helpful so quickly we'll just say you know again in terms of the whole psychological emotional interpersonal piece some of the research which I think is the most compelling again for both actually male and female patients is that generally speaking individuals will not follow through with many of the treatments that we offer if people feel damaged if people feel that they can't be comfortable in their bodies and are trying to really sort of avoid you know I have telling patients to explain that feeling I'd like I just try to avoid everything from the neck below right if you feel dissociated from your body if you feel like you can't, 


you have no way to talk with a partner if you cannot imagine dating or starting a relationship, right, it's really important to, I think, work from a kind of a team perspective and figure out what are the pieces that people need to put together in order to feel rounded and whole enough to be able to then use these treatments that we may be offering, right? 


So, you know, whether that's sort of figuring out all of the kind of cognitive stuff, the negative thinking, the relationship stuff, and again, I'm working at Dr. Shavayu, does a lot of work with this, you know, around sort of the anxiety avoidance cycle that, again, is profound for some of our patients, right, to the point that, again, it is crippling. 


The feeling that I can't do anything, all I can do is just try to avoid what's gonna feel like a panic attack, right? And so, again, I think what we often talk about how we talk a lot, there's a lot of talk about integrative care, this is one place in one population where it is essential. 


right, to be able to sort of move people forward. So, you know, again, body image issues, we have kind of out that at IshWish, but I would just say, again, in general, for anybody who feels that they have been damaged in some way and people really talk about the feeling of damage, it is not always obvious. 


Thinking about our breast cancer patients who get an enormous amount of feedback about how great they look in a bathing suit. But when you cannot feel anything, when you are totally numb, when you have no sensation from your clavicle to your midsection, if you had a flap surgery, that's a big issue, right? 


If the only way that you've previously had orgasm is from nipple sensation and you have no sensation, it doesn't matter how great you look, right? That is a piece that has to get addressed, regardless, right? 


And no amount of medication is going to help that desire problem, right? That is kind of a good example of how we have to sort of think in an integrated way. So just sort of thinking a little bit about assessment. 


I know we talked sort of in the world that I live in. We've talked a lot about what that means to be able to sort of have a systematic way, a routine way of really addressing and assessing all of these issues. 


Several years ago, the network took a kind of a sort of a well-validated sort of population-based checklist for sexual medicine, sexual health, and said, what does that mean for cancer survivors? Really just want to sort of draw attention to a couple of things. 


Assumption when people ask about sexual function is that you are sexually active. Maybe people are familiar with the FSFI, Demonsexual Function Index, gold standard, all premised on sexual activity in the past eight weeks. 


If you have a cancer treatment, if you are a survivor, if you have not even attempted any sexual activity for the last two years or six months, the FSFI is actually not a good measure for you. So if we just ask about sexual function, assume that it's not helpful. 


So we often talk about the notion of vaginal health. That recognized vagina does not cover the whole anatomy. people often just use that word because women have the intuitive sense of what that means. 


But the idea is that if you ask women about it, if you're concerned about that at your own health, it's not just about whether you're sexually active or not. And I just think that's really important from a kind of an inclusive perspective, that whether you are a partner, single, old, young, you know, this is relevant. 


And then we sort of, you know, just want to sort of begin to ask people whether you're having pain again, or without sexual activity, right? So again, lots of folks who are not sexually active because of all the kinds of things we talked about are struggling and don't either get the questions or sort of don't get the attention they need because the assumption is really more about sexual activity rather than sort of overall rational health. 


So that's really something to think about. So, I'll let you take off the last piece of both. Yeah, so we just add these resources because a lot of times, I mean, we see patients from all over the world and so how are they able to find resources? 


locally. And so the vibrate, we actually have a vibrator handout. You have a vibrator handout, yeah, we have a vibrator handout. We have, we won an award for our comfort during sexual activity. It's very explicit and it's very inclusive. 


And so we won the, the broads award. Nice job, Carol. So anyway, we were like, yes, you know, but it was recognizing that this is an important clinic and supporting us as we do our work. Certainly sex therapists are critical to this population. 


And so there's a, the two websites for the public floor physical benefits and sex therapists. So we give them a prescription for public floor physical therapists. They can take it, they can figure out where they can find somebody locally. 


And we've been encouraging people actually another thing to add on there is the medical society. So we're trying to get people make recommendations and then say, Hey, this is where you may be able to find a provider that is certified in menopause and really understands this. 


So that's another thing. And that's just sort of just one more piece of other resources. I mean, one of the things that's really wonderful, and I'd invite everyone to really sort of learn about if you don't know already, you know, in the last decade, one of the things that I think has been tremendous is the amount of resources for patients, sort of patient facing directly about sort of kids sexual recovery and cancer. 


So, you know, I recognize that we're fortunate to work for people to access to major medical center, but there is an enormous amount of stuff online now that is actually really good quality for patients in terms of being able to figure out how to put some of these pieces together and have access resources online, which is actually was not the case even five or 10 years ago. 


So also just recognizing that many of the patient advocacy groups now have added significant resources to their online information of about sexual recovery. So that's been, that's, that's a really. And Ishwish has a, you know, their website too also has a provider list of people that have come to the conferences and so that's, so those, those are the, I actually made a little document so that people could take it off and they can, 


they can access that website and find providers in their area. And then people found that very helpful because I know, you know, wherever you are, you know, we all have limitations in what we can do on a regular basis. 


So this is our conference, we're very excited at the University of Minnesota and it's going to be in November and one of the things we're going to do this year is have a pretty conference on sex 101 and cancer. 


So we have a whole day, let's just talk about all the issues about sexual health and cancer. We've got a good lineup. We'll really do a deep dive into a lot of these issues that I think we sort of touch on in a sort of somewhat service way. 


So this is something that you're really doing or have sort of a focus. I will say this is a deep dive into not just the sort of what we know about sort of state-of-the-art treatment, but really about some of the controversies and about really working with special populations. 


So whether that is, you know, young adult adolescents, whether that's transplant patients, whether that's folks who are getting prophylactic surgery after, you know, cancer genetic diagnoses, I think we really sort of try to have a pretty thorough and again, very intense and focused two-day meeting. 


But I hope that you'll consider coming. Do you have a virtual option? Sorry? Is it virtual as well? So not right now, but I mean, I've been having a conversation because knowing not being a large group... 


It's really expensive to put on a virtual meeting. What I learned is that Ishwish added on virtual option through Zoom. Okay. All right. If we see how our registration goes, and if we outuse our room, we've got... 


Then we may think about, you know, should we hear about a Zoom option? But I will say that, you know, even if you join the network, there's a very nominal fee. You know, slides are available to folks after. 


So, you know, I think we're very much trying to figure out how to make things available. But yes, consider coming. And we wanted to be putting time for questions. And now we have about 10 or 15 minutes about whether there's individual cases or questions about an oncology or sex or oncology practice, oncocetuality practice, and a women's touch based in Minneapolis. 


Sorry. Is the store a women's touch, which is special? And is that based in Minneapolis? No, that's actually in Wisconsin, yeah. One or the other. Yeah. They've been doing this for every very long time. 


What is? Smith & Kitten. Ms. Kitten is in the air. You should do like a field trap. Just because you like it. Yeah, so I think it'll be... You just feel the vibrance in the group. No pun intended. No pun intended. 


I don't know how to bring a shit vibrance. I went to the one in April last year. It's like the interdisciplinary because we learned a lot about radiation therapy. Because we do CGYN patients but I've never done anything with GYN cancer. 


So learning about radiation therapy and the effects on the whole body. We can add that to one of our topics. Yeah, which is great. Absolutely fabulous. Yes, yeah. So, yeah, so it would be really fun to have all of you. 


This is our first year. We've grown enough that we actually have the conference in the hotel. I was like, that is a win. So I think you guys take your, you know, you get into Minneapolis. You take the Uber to the hotel and you're good. 


Congratulations. Formal, vaginal, raspous host. Is it diagnosed clinically? Is it diagnosed with a biopsy? So I believe, again, I'm not a gynecologist, but our gynecologists are both. And, you know, she's, I know she's using checker limits and other kind of, I think it's like the LA country age. 


Yeah, okay. And that's a good point because sometimes the thought is try not to biopsy because it could make things worse. So if you think it is, and you've given them the topical estrogen that treated like it is, you know, and, you know, that's why we work with them to make that decision about biopsy, because we do have all of our biopsies in our clinic. 


But I think that's one instance where we really do have to be careful about when we can biopsy. So questions, yeah, I have a fast question. Do you, in your practice, do you guys have a seat at the table right away? 


I have approached our oncologist and from my perspective, oncology is a great example of interdisciplinary care, that the patient is seeing a radiation oncologist, a medical oncologist, a surgical oncologist, a nutritionist, a physical therapist, genetic, I mean, and my position, I'm a gynecologist, sexual medicine, is that I want a seat at the table like you guys, right away, and I'm told, and sometimes this is true, 


but sometimes it's not, I'm told women don't understand, they hear the 36 letter word cancer and they turn off and they can't handle it and it's trauma and they're not ready for that, and I think sometimes that is true, but I also think for the younger population of women who are gonna live statistically, which are their breast cancer patients that are diagnosed very early, I think that notion that we're not gonna talk to them until later, 


for lack of a better word, pisses them off because they want to know that you see me alive, you see me living through. And they don't want to be treated like the 75-year-old woman comes in with stage, you know. 


They see, read, ovarian cancer, you know what's going to happen to her. And so I think there's this tendency to color everybody with the same brush of cancer care. And I think it's really bad. How do your own colleges, when you share that opinion with them, what's the feedback you get? 


It hasn't been my experience. I'm like, you need to come to my school. You need to try to do some grand rounds and things like that. So where are you in the hospital? I'm in the hospital. Yes, I was going to do medicine. 


So it is a tertiary care facility. Do you work with Dave Kushner? I do. Dave was one of the founders of our network. So I think there's pockets, but no pants. But there's, you know, we... We also have, you know, sorry, a lot of male doctors there that are 99 years old, not really. 


And they don't, but they just want to see it. I did a thesis looking at whether people wanted their education before or after. It was a small pilot study, but they definitely wanted it before. Yeah, thank you. 


These were older women getting pelvic radiation for cancer, the Walmart and cervical cancer, and they definitely, the ones that got it after were like, I wish I'd had it before I started all this. So now this brings us to the next question, which is how do you change a really big system and culture? 


Because I think we all agree with you. And that's just, it's just super, you know, frustrating and fun. I think just show up. Yeah, our tumor board, I mean, once upon a time, I haven't been part of tumor board because I was on Mondays and I'm off on Mondays, but it used to be a room like this. 


Like everybody was actually in the room. We were looking at the same screen. Now it's on Zoom. Literally have somebody send you the Zoom link and be like, hey, this is so-and-so and I do sexual medicine. 


This person actually sounds like a really great candidate to have an appointment with me. This is my name. I'm in there, put in a referral. I'm under di-da-da-da. And be like, and just like genetics, send her my way. 


Like I want to talk to her because I think that she would be a great candidate for a preemptive sexual medicine visit. And then she knows she has me in her back pocket for when she starts having issues. 


And just show up. I don't give a shit if they like, why am I a shit? I'm annoyed that way. Like, you can notice it on me. I just show up. I was about to say, as an oncologist, there is a lot that you come to talk about in the future. 


And it is, you watch the eyes glaze over as you start to talk about things. And so as someone who is very, my potential health is really important. I actually learned Dave Kushner from a three-day membership. 


And it takes time even when I start. to learn how to incorporate that into visits earlier on. But one of the things is most cancer centers give patients through nurse navigation very early on, like a binder or a packet of information, and patients read through that. 


And so we've found that some of the stuff that is hard to get through, that we put it in those binders and then patients have it. And so that's what I think that patients can look at it. And for those patients who it is really important, they will seek that out. 


And they do ask questions about that, so they don't have to be able to answer. Yeah, and you have to open the door. So I had good success with putting science in the rooms that said your sexuality has got a luxury in a fight for survival, and here's help for people with cancer and sexual concern that's here. 


And that really helped. I think there's an increase. Recently, I don't know if it's Nora's study, but presenting the data that's available to oncology teams, about 20% of people want to hear it at the time of diagnosis. 


You know, here's the percentage that want to hear it later. You know, that there is data that's available that we have that says that people want to hear it across their diagnosis and treatments. I mean, it just can't be like one and done, you know? 


If they come in and they're not ready, you know, we've all had the patient like it's crying for an hour and you know, you couldn't get through, I mean, we've all done that. But I mean, you know, bring it up the next bit or two, it just can't be like a one and done, you talked about it, let's talk about it. 


I think we think about it as it should be part of the review of systems like everything else. So in the same way that we ask about pain and fatigue in a routine sort of way, it's just rolled into that. 


And if somebody wants to talk more about that, it's available. And if somebody doesn't, and to your point, I honestly, I think the, especially with what we know now in terms of treatments and cancer with immunotherapies and advanced, there is honestly, it is unbelievable what an oncologist has to get through in an incredibly short amount of time. 


I think it's very easy to throw our oncology colleagues over there. That's what I'm trying to do. I think, yeah, but it's not possible, right? For sure, there's a cultural issue there. But I would say that having that is just being part of the review that is just available to them, and patients will come to it as they're ready. 


So your point is at, absolutely. I was just gonna say we integrated this program into UN, and I'm a breast surgeon, so I know all this stuff that has to happen in the beginning, but when we started this program, we targeted all the NPs and the end-to-end practice providers of the oncologist. 


We made the handouts, we went and talked to them and they're the ones that are coming in after the long conversation, so like when patients are upset. And then the other thing is, I came at it like when I got to the system is, well let me give a talk, and so I ended up giving a little talk so if you want to grant to, but I really went after, I stamped Dreamline the Curls, I gave it a cute name, and then I went and now I regularly email the MPS, 


hey, we have open slots on Mondays, if you have any patients starting chemo who want to talk to us before they start chemo, or anyone starting a different therapy. Yeah, so I targeted them. Well I'm just a practical thing of similar to what you did. 


We ended up just making little tiny things with a QR code, and then all the vendors in our cancer center and any of our other patients that get that for doing the interview, in fact, so that they're providing, they're working on spending and not getting better, but welcome to the people that are sitting there right now and waiting there. 


I just looked at plug-ins in a 75-year-old with ovarian cancer. We spent a lot of time worrying about our younger patients. I also spent a lot of time worrying about our women. cancer and people who are not young because they actually have lots of the same concerns. 


I had a 75 year old black female with anal cancer and she came in and she's like, I might want to have sex again. I couldn't get my finger in her vagina. If you'd like to take a picture, I actually have a picture. 


The commission is on a slide, so this presentation is like, you forget this, this is what's going to happen. And being your own advocate is really, really important. When I became section 10, I went to every division meeting that touched cancer so that they would know who we were and how we could work with them. 


And so over time, you know, and I have to go back and remind them and over time, in fact, I've had patients that were really mad that they could get referred earlier. I know it's five, but just a couple of minutes before eight, but first of all, thank you so much for coming. 


Please come to Minneapolis, join us, and thanks for being here. 
