

and get your thoughts. And so this morning, we put together a few cases that our panelists, these stand people to my left, are all serving on the orgasm panel. We have additional panelists. If anyone comes in who's on the panel, welcome around. 


Not everybody's on attendance. Not everybody's here. There are two of our faculty of state, so we recognize that. But this is not going to be such a formal presentation. This has really been to sort of be thought provoking to hear your responses. 


I know that with at least one person in the audience is a case I'd like to present. Hopefully it's more than that. And this is really going to be more in the form of a conversation. So we prepared several cases. 


Jim, you're on the panel. Come on up. You're on the panel, right? I am. I was hoping you were born again. Yeah, well. Once this guest gets full, the person can come up and get away. That's a little bit. 


Yeah, so essentially we're just going to go through a few cases to have a conversation. At any time, we've got a few microphones on the floor. Please come up with comments, ask questions. As I said, if you have a case, comment. 


We'll discuss cases. But we really want to hear people's thoughts. These people's thoughts and these people's thoughts, okay? So don't be shy. I will present the first case. This is our house. So as people come in, the members of the panel come out here. 


Our assistant, four years old, she presented the inability to reach orgasm. Well, duh, this is the orgasm program this morning. She recently broke up with her partner. She had years of misdemeanor pain, which she described as burning and tearing. 


She had a lot of shame and guilt surrounding her inability to reach orgasm. And she was very conscious of her genitalia. She had started her menses at 10 and then had her last menstrual period at 15. 


At this point in her life, she denies having normal sexual desire for the need for sexual activity, but she's still sticking her door to that before that's coming. You can see her value of the instruments, her VMI is 23, and she's a very typical type of presentation or desire for today. 


You know, she said she denies having normal desires, her desire is 4.206. Something weird, you said you had to move out. Yeah. The pain score is zero. Okay. Her labs are typical labs of a post-menopausal woman. 


She's probably going to need more and more support. I think that's kind of hard to see. I'm physically, I'm physically, sorry, 64. She is, you know, self-absorption of the labia minora, she's the people who look at the philosophy, she clearly has pain tests. 


I don't know, but I'm sweat testing, powder, and H.R. Baker-Weath bed, and just a typical non-harmonally supported post-menopausal woman. So what's going on with her? She can't enjoy dancing. I think it's too much space to put up. 


What would you do? So we'll start with anyone who wants to come and suggest to come up to the microphone, but I'll ask the panelists, whoever wants to jump in. I'm not gonna ask one person at a time. 


Literally, whoever's not eating, and forgive us, we're all eating together. Whoever's not eating, wants to grab a mic. Jim? We have two gyms, but I'll start, and I'll do it with the other gyms. Well, you pull the microphone, which is what I said to you. 


So there are a number of things going on, so we gotta get ready for pain. We've gotta heal the fact that she broke up with her boyfriend, made him depressed about that, or have some issues, sexual issues about that. 


I would say that she needs hormones for blood flow, sensation, a bunch of other things. I could go on and on, but I've used my time. Multi-factorial. Just grab a mic, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, I would certainly agree with that. 


She says she has no desire, but her desire is for the SSFI, right? She has a history of pain, but says she has no pain. So I think- Oh, she had? I screwed up. Zero out of six is 100%. I was like, I'll take it. 


So at least that, she knows she has, but the confusion here is clearly multi-factorial, and I think we gotta start the pain, then deal with the hormones, and then deal psychologically with the breakup and with her own self-perception and sensuality. 


I would say that she has a lack of adequate inhibition. So I think to increase the degree of inhibition to see if that would enable her exactation to reach a higher level. So one possibility would be a low dose of short-acting tetrides, which is the toxicity. 


And to see if that enables her to stimulate to a higher intensity without any reversals. So would you go through that first, or would you do a limit on the causes of the disease first? So, Jim and Jim were talking about dealing with some of the other symptoms. 


Would you deal with all of this at the same time, or would you deal with menopausal symptoms first? Whatever. Just pass it back. Whoever wants to answer. Well, I mean, she's kind of representing the menopausal symptoms and the liability of orgasm. 


Would you deal with the depoxity right away, or would you deal with menopausal symptoms right away, or would you do it all at the same time? Well, I'm not going to deal with it. I think the easiest, the shortest, fastest thing would be to drive a depoxity and see what happens. 


So, I would ask her what's bothering her the most, and start her expectation of what's bothering her the most, not necessarily what's going to get her the most. Well, she presented with an orgasm. That was what she came specifically for. 


Well, she came with menopausal symptoms. So, if she came to my office, I'm the menopausal. So, I'd say, is that shot going to be more? Is it orgasm? And then I'd go with her expectations, because that validates the problem, whatever she thinks it is. 


And that's what I would start with. But it would be trying to get a two-fer or a three-fer, and whatever her symptom is, trying to get some benefits for the non-problem number one symptom. If that's what we've got about her boyfriend breaking up, then I would go with Barry's idea of some kind of medication, or therapy, or combination therapy. 


I'd let her drive the train. I mean, she didn't think it was the end of the husband. That's why it wasn't presented first, because we're focused on it. That's what she came, but she wanted to tell her. 


And, what I'd like to do... to do with these kinds of people is address the fact that they're living in their pain bodies. So she's had physical pain, she's had emotional pain, so I'm a big fan of letting people ventilate some of that, of those emotions, and then what I do often is I help them, sort of with a suggestibility, hypnotherapeutic perspective, to tune into the sensations from their body. 


So what I start with sometimes is getting them to be able to just get those genitals back in line in a pleasurable way. So the research that we did that showed that, just thinking about your genitals in a pleasurable way, so touching and imagine touching, and kind of creating the larger perspective of how she can feel in her body that is a place of pleasure and to like down regularly to feel the stress and anxiety that she's probably doing. 


that's connected to all of this. Thank you, ma'am. I'd like to know about one of N's that I care about. I'm so curious. This is a person who's had a long-standing fame and a low desire, and yet is presenting within the past year. 


So what is the driving force? I'm so curious to know, what is driving towards orgasm specifically as why is orgasm in the first role? Well, first of all, we don't know that she has long-standing pain. 


She's 64. She may have, if she went to her last menstrual period, it was only 54. So her pain has developed, disappearing in the early 60s from the menopause. There may not be such long-standing pain. 


Gasp and he's been there longer. I don't know if that's what it was for you. Yeah. I remember I think it was like some of the years of this would be, I think, years of vestibular pain. Oh, yeah. So again, that's so striking to me that you have somebody who has had years of punishment as they own this thing, and potentially to the point where we're not going to have a chronic pain issue, which is a very different kind of follow-up accident of keeping. 


And yet, the presenting problem always came from orgasm. And so what does orgasm mean for this person? What role does it play for her sexual student or life? What is her goal for orgasm and trying to work towards that, right? 


Orgasm is going to be complex for her own. I think it was a lot of the roles caused by people. Is it the pleasure that she's seeking? Is it the way that, like, what meaning it carries in her relationship? 


Does she attribute the breakup to that? Does she feel like a broken person? Is it going to be friendly to make the cherry on the cake that it says that she's pulling in? I'm really curious about that, because what's looking for us in this room is how really we both stand out in problems like that. 


For those of you who are seeking one specific role, maybe you really want to know what the painting is. I think that's important to the detailed history, because just because a patient presents with a complaint or a guess, and we get the detailed history to hear all of that, which is, you know, Tierney said the trigger she lost, what else is going on? 


Is it because she just broke up with her boyfriend because she couldn't be short-guessing when that traitor could come in? Or is this something that's always been there for you? Her one? Our chance. So thank you all for being here. 


Thank you, Sue, for throwing my case together. And I love everybody's comments. When I went to get this consensus panel to get it to their brain, all of the conversation was ridiculously relevant and important. 


I'm just trying to tease out when people say I can't get an orgasm, because it's not a sufficient information, but I can't get an orgasm. So what I'm trying to get everybody to do at home and everybody in the room is to have them go through a sensual event that is typical for them. 


So this is Joe, he's our gal. You're with whoever you are, a masturbation with your new boyfriend, somebody, and you're having a sexual event. Describe what's happened to you. There's a heart failure. 


Do you get wet? Do you emotionally find that you're climbing this increase in your excitation? I know neither of us are likely to climb. I'll avoid the word climb, never neither of us. But for increasing excitation, Barry will say there's also increasing emissions of the increased excitation. 


But eventually you have to get to a certain level of excitation that you cross into the organs. But she's not able to get. She'll say, I try, I try. And if you listen very carefully, she'll also say, wait, it's just way too content sensitive down there. 


I try, the more it hurts. So I have failure to reach orgasm, but I'm doing it in the pre-orgasm phase. I'm not even getting to orgasm. I'm not getting to the post-orgasm phase. So the next specification of orgasmic dysfunction involving pre-orgasm phase, that's the only message I'd love to get to everybody, is to dissect out within this event of orgasm. 


Where it is, is the problem. Because once you identify where it is and the problem, then you're bringing in folks that there are certain things I could do for a pre-orgasm phase person. And it's way different than someone who can't. 


get out of the post-war guest space. It's a whole different version for you. So when someone says, I have no more guests, do your best to listen and find out where your problem is, because we have lots of things to offer. 


So in this particular state, since I know this person, it's one where it's way too goddamn sensitive and she can't pursue it further. And that's where her pain was. So I don't know. Does anyone on the panel want to change any recommendations based on that new information? 


This is a pre-orgasm phase, where as she's trying to increase her excitation, her heart rate, her lubrication, her movements, her myotony, all that stuff, it just hurts. I'd like to say something. Given that pain becomes, like, in addition to learning, and then people get very, very tense, that compounds the sensations. 


Sometimes you can focus on turning down the sensations by helping people instead of focusing on these sensations. To just kind of focus on leaning into the sensation in a way that they can bear. So you can still do the similar things like getting them to touch themselves gently, thinking about touching themselves, and then associating that new experience that's not painful I think it's a part of helping people be conditioned themselves. 


Her question, does she have high pulpit floor tension? High pulpit floor tension? High pulpit floor tension and low core tension. I mean, that can actually put pressure on the nerves. So she's not feeling something until it's too intense. 


The myosinoma, the orgasm is a genre of pain. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Does anyone before want to ask a question and make a comment before you move on to the next case? The message I heard was if you listened to, if you didn't mind enough, they'll tell you what's wrong with you. 


Okay, well thank you. I just think, so the purpose of this was to show you a pre-orgasm phase person who can't climb enough because of hurts. That's our genuine plan. So there are strategies for that. 


I'll give you the two strategies that experts look at. One is a pain message. To take Tyler Dollar or Ravi Profani for sex hasn't worked in this situation, I think other people. And the other one is, I already would say, excitation has to be monitored, obviously with inhibition, so you can excite more. 


And the idea inhibition in part is through serotonin. So a serotonin, that's just right, agent. It has other use in section of that box of T, D, A, B, O, X, B, T, I, and A. It comes from 30 to 60 milligrams of it. 


It's a fast-acting because of a half-life of only three to four hours. So it's kind of perfect for the setting versus the usual over mood, because that's right, which is definitely the last point. So, Berwin, where do you get the epoxy tea? 


Do you have any stuff to do with it? We're a history of national organization, so where in the world is epoxy available? Epoxy is available in Europe, Canada, and Mexico. It wasn't exactly in the U.S. 


They have to get it in a... Well, we were not ready for the Canadian pharmacy because we used it all the time, but that's... There's just any way to get it. I'm sorry. Erwin, give me one last thing, which I think is really instructive, getting her out of her being like into a pleasurable... 


sensation and body. I'm wondering if pelvic floor, but having a pelvic floor therapist would be really good for her to get control over her pelvic floor so that she can learn to relax. The role of pelvic floor therapy in all women's sexual issues is very important. 


Can I ask one thing? I think that this condition may resemble the case in the manner of premature ejaculation. SSRI is used as a therapy to inhibit the early ejaculation and allow the men to go longer and get more and more intense stimulation and have delayed to normal. 


I think building on that, if we consider this as a prologue to premature ejaculation, if we consider this as the parallel to premature ejaculation, I also want to think about the fact that she's procuring really high genital self-consciousness, which implies performance anxiety as well. 


It's very likely that she, especially given the long-standing list of the parallel, that she's spending so much time focusing on, are we doing this doing right? Is my body performing the way it's supposed to? 


And that hyperattention to the sensation is potentially also contributing to this over-extension on inhibition. She's really focusing in on the same thing that we see with any kind of performance anxiety. 


So, potentially trying to introduce some sort of pleasure-oriented task to help her re-orient to, rather than focusing on the very goal-specific or kind of touching, just to try, just to practice, like what would it be like to engage in touching this pleasure-oriented goal? 


So, this is clearly a multidisciplinary approach. How many of you, in your practices, have access to other kinds of providers so that you're able to provide a multidisciplinary approach? That's wonderful. 


So, that's one of these underlying messages you'll hear throughout all of this, which, if you have permission, I'm going to move on to the next case. So, I'd just like to say, if things which you can fix in your circumstance, make sure that your initial assessment, which I think there's a lot of, homogeneity of what our initial assessment is, but fix what you can fix, and then reassess because you may have been wrong all along. 


And, you know, it's gonna evolve, and you have to assume that all of what you're hearing, or maybe what she's telling, has some degree of camouflage, and do you strip those things away? Thank you. Okay, I have time for this again. 


What people suggested, Tracey and Dan, of paying attention to things other than the actual pain, that is another form of inhibition of the expectations. That would be another way, a non-pharmacological way of trying to do the same thing, to allow the expectation to increase, would that become universal? 


So, I just bring up a motion to sign up, comment, and then support it. I think we've got to do it in our office, as Oregon has to do this budget. I felt this is the beginning of their journey, and we're gonna meet regularly to see what our interventions are doing, how they're doing, and they can help us, help others, and listen to what Oregon is, and say, well, that medicine is really good for me, 


and maybe you should try it for people, but it's evolving, moving harder, but many just, I think that's the key message. It's not gonna come in, get a treat for that day, and we're done with just talking about it. 


Also remember that the field of women's sexual health is anything other than a mental health issue. It's really still brand new, so what we know today isn't half as much as we'll know tomorrow, as twice as much as we knew yesterday, which is another reason for continuing that journey. 


Okay, it's the case of JH. Sorry? Go ahead. When you say they're going to follow up with these patients on a regular basis, how often are we going to see them and when we consider like that you're going to fail here if I need to try something else? 


I don't figure what everyone says, but in our office it's a must-be phone call. One to ten, one to fifteen, one to twelve. Thank you all. I'm just wondering for those of us who may have a difficult time getting drugs from Europe or Canada, would you recommend trying to make a compound of topical galapentin or anything else to kind of like cut down on the clinical neurologist? 


That's what we have in our tool case after the time that I'll answer. The problem here is she can't get sufficient excitation, but it's not that she can't get excitation, she can't. It's painful, so she's not getting excitation because she's not truly getting excitation. 


increase admission, yeah, so it would be a perfect show. Okay, and also, thanks for the comment on the PT. What else did we understand? Thank you. Hi, thank you everyone. I have a quick question, and I apologize for the babies who discussed it in the case presentation, but was the goal setting part of the visual into my definition of what work ethic is to her, and what, like, I think she's, like, 


has she been able to achieve her answer before in the goal again? Or, yeah, what was that like? I'm so glad you said that, because that was exactly my comment. It's just that that would need to be part of the take, especially in a case like this, where you have somebody who's important to multiple different issues, and kind of to, I'm forgetting who we've mentioned, I think maybe Jim, who really needs to know why this right now, 


why is this the thing that is bringing her into the office? And what you also got to think? Actually, before we go to the next case, I was going to just ask each panelist to identify themselves, you know who they are, just, you know, yeah, Jim, don't you start. 


Jim, I'm Jim Simon, I'm a reproductive endocrinologist, sexual medicine educator, and man across the room. I'm Jim, I'm a basic scientist, neurobiologist. I'm a behavioral neuroscientist, specialist in brain activity, sexual response. 


I'm Nana Wise, I work with Barry in behavioral neurosciences research in the sex therapist's club and in the therapist's relationship sciences. And what do you all think? Sexual medicine? To start life as a clinical psychologist, we move over to neurosciences particularly, and psychophysiology of arousal. 


I'm Sue Goldstein, and I'm responsible for surrounding all these people. Our next case, JH. So she's 33 years old. She presented it as well with the inability to reach for it. She's not experiencing sexual pain. 


She doesn't currently have a partner. She's not sexually active. She does have a history of fight writing. She was incidentally prescribed Vanessa Sarai when she was 15 and experiences a very poor sensation in her clitoris. 


You can see her validated instruments. Her total undervis device is 4.1. She's not really very sexually happy. Her SDS score is 28, so she's clearly distressed by all of this. Her labs are typical of her pre-medical woman, who is probably a little more contraceptive or something. 


I'm not going to go into detail, but her modulated treatment is 0.3, so that's what gives your background and all those terms. On physical exam, she has no, well I don't know, she has a normal, a lot of normal exams, she has no pain, on palpation, you know, her q-tip is totally normal. 


And we consider her a failure to excite, so let's go through this again. Who wants to volunteer to start making a comment? Anybody? What do you think this is going to mean? What do you think she's experiencing? 


You saw what she said, she's experiencing what is really going on, what would you do? By creating combined normal contraceptive and low free tea, so talking to her about how attached she is to her combined normal contraceptive and wanting to get her off of that, onto something else, if she does have sperm exposure, we don't know why she's going to see the contraceptive, right? 


Just seeing what she wants to do and maybe getting the tea bag up, wouldn't say no to the testosterone at the clitoral area vestibule, and see her again in a baby like a mom, and see what happened. By creating, probably I would do a really good physical exam to make sure there's no potential involvement, whatever that might be. 


I can tell you her glorious obsession as we look, that we do believe is related to the development. I wonder if this is, did she have orgasms before? Is this new? When did it start relative to her bike riding? 


So the bike riding occurs in the teenage years and she wasn't sexually active at the orgasm. Will the pre-orgasm phase of the orgasm is lifelong for her? But it's only lifelong for as long as she was attending the section of any special experience. 


She didn't masturbate until she was 18 and lifelong. I don't know if we know it, you know, if and when she masturbates and she's not having partner sex. All that information is important. So why don't we start. 


Can I ask some of the psychological things? I mean, has there any abuse? Did she ever have it all personally? Does she masturbate? Does she know what she likes? I think there's so many things that we don't know about it. 


Some of the women I speak that say they cannot feel that they're dangerous. It's because they have some kind of abuse, so they just disconnect to the areas. I think we need to learn a little bit more about it. 


And what's her experience? What does it mean she cannot get an orgasm? Did she ever have it? What are her expectations? Excellent point. I think when I do case studies in the future, I need to not only pull out our biological records, but I need to put up with Dr. 


Hartz's records so I can add that in addition. So thank you for that reminder. I did not look at that. I do not know if she experienced abuse. I think it's very normal that she starts an SSRI at age 15 around the time when most folks would be starting to engage in some sort of solo play to inform their bodies, et cetera. 


So to the question of what's her reservation history, why is it that this is her life? Yeah, why would she own a SSRI at that time, right? I'd be very curious if she has had a time in her life where she has been able to engage in a lot of learning play, to the answer is, when she didn't have a SSRI in her work, is some of the work that's come out of my lab is that folks who took an SSRI when they were in these critical windows in adolescence, 


that that continues to have an effect on their sexual desire or their sexual arousal in adults. And long after they've stopped taking that medication because this is actually coming up some of the 2000s where your earliest sexual experiences, if they were not onboarding, because you have this agent on board that really blocked her ability to earn a reward from them, can have a really long-standing effect. 


So I'd be very curious, has she had an opportunity to have a lot of really dedicated focus, direct conservation time without a SSRI, without these testosterone-lowering alone medications? That would be where I would start with being like, let's get these off board and let's have them practice some fun to see who can get the work done. 


To Thirini's point, was the SSRI for depression or anxiety, or was it for neuropathic pain related maybe to a bike, biking and some kind of... So it was provided by her parents, and it was because of anxiety at school, and that was the basic work. 


It wasn't her decision because she wasn't going to have any medical decisions. So it was Natalie and Dr. to document anxiety at school. Anita? Yeah. So those things are a different point. There are data looking at, that have been published, looking at sexual functioning adolescents. 


Is this the time when your sexual identity development? I don't know. So if it was for anxiety, did it work? Is she still anxious? Is she still on this? What kind of doses were those? What trauma was happening around her? 


Why did she get anxious at between when she's anxious and awake? Anxiety gets in the way of almost everything. And I really would. be looking at that. I have to agree with Andrea about looking at a trauma. 


Also, religion, since it sounds like appearance, we're trying to help her get on a set or get something. But maybe they were also related to me, which would be well in school, or all these other things. 


So I mean, those are the nine histories that we take as psychiatrists. And that's where I think I'm not the only one who will live. Or it may have everything to do with them. And so I think we do need to think about any potential alternatives to her anxiety. 


So anyway. In our practice, we have the advantage of the full-time sex therapist, who would be getting all the history. And then our clinicians would talk to each other. I just want to include all that in the future. 


I'm not going to include that in the future. That's very important that it's super amazing. I had a very similar case, also taking SSRIs for me for two years, in the age of 14 and 15, and then to me in the age of 17. 


I've only seen her one time, so the product is not really long. And she would learn exactly the same story of not feeling very aroused. And yeah, with low sensitivity, I think she slept a lot. And so trauma has to be was described by her. 


And she said, well, she must have been told to affect her home, back when I had a diary. What do you feel? Which travesties come out right on? So to explore this a little bit more, essentially get peace. 


But my concern was that we had to do something with the SSRIs, which is maybe not reversible. And I can see her again, and now she's also a secular person, but yeah, I didn't know what to follow up on, but I also, in terms of NRIs and so forth, what should I actually do for the whole, to get the whole picture? 


And also, what can I tell her in terms of the prognosis, if there's nothing that the SSRI hypothesis then remains again, and what could I maybe try as an indication? Yes, so in view of the SSRI story, in view of her lack of ability to increase excitation and be introduced to her, in addition to Dr. 


Hartzell and her strategies psychologically, a pharmacological strategy. So I think, at the end of the day, it's what I wanted to, this case, to introduce, so if we're gonna do that now, we can. So, a serotonin antagonist makes a lot of sense here because of the previous exposure to a serotonin raisin feed. 


We have an FDA, well, they do this naturally, an FDA-approved serotonin antagonist that's pro-sexual that has data not only on HSDB, which is what it's, that it would be used for, but it has a lot of data on, and women who have HSDB, African, and above, that it really improves orgasm. 


And the rules of orgasm are the first part of that. I'm gonna just put in a reminder that most of the medications we're talking about are not only off-label, as you saw during the orgasm presentation, but a lot of this is expert opinion. 


We don't have a lot of literature supporting this, so please understand that this is, these panels experience a not necessarily God-given word. We just don't have all the data. So, take it as a word and use it in your practice as it works for you. 


I'm sorry, continue. No, I, uh, when it was a brilliant puzzle, I don't know what it is. So, I sent from an antagonist agent with the flow bastard, and it's under program. How do you take it in life? 


After two or three months, you will probably get a reasonable assessment of the efficacy. We would include some dopamine into this, and there's another, I think, with dopamine, which has a lot of evidence for orgasm also in women with HSDB, and that's the renal appetite so it contains. 


The difference is, flow bastard is kind of like a chronic thing, whereas the renal appetite is on demand. And we're very big on the oxytocin, we've got really nice success with it, so we would, at minimum, do those three agents. 


She chose, also, the one, the endrobion. So, we've been our four agents, but we're the endrobion, and our flow bastard, the, blah, blah, blah, three agents. We need the, and the oscars as well. And she is now our guest, and it's really exciting. 


And I just wanted to share that, you know, this is like lots and lots of input that helps people. The psychological input was very helpful. The past history of anxiety and dealing with that was very helpful. 


But we needed a boost here to get across the finish line. In particular, the very sensitivity was reduced. And I believe that by driving this was possible. So we needed to get more information to the president. 


At least believe the medicine is helpful. And did you introduce them to make patients stepwise or once? Well, so you could. It's an integral kind of thing. I kind of pushed falling hard to see in the sixth. 


I lose patience. Oh, I went to Dr. Goz. He needed this one driver. He didn't work. I was too bad for anything other person. But my statement is we below doses, we probably will be 75 programs. So in general, if the people do stuff, and they try to get to that more, they're called, if that's what they're doing. 


And then they just go throughout the day for them to say, oh, that didn't really help you, so you don't need it. But rather get them to what they want, then I can help them. Thank you. But for only a question, did you give the answer to every moment that's involved? 


Yes. Okay, so this is really interesting, because... So think of HSDV, when we have thought of HSDV, and have it from a failure to excitement. Too much inhibition, or a mixture of the two. Right? Yes. 


And so here you have orgasm as much as a result of a mixture of the two. So the expectation here, you amp that, but there's still too much inhibition. It's not going to work nearly as well as we're decreasing inhibition, and now reaching a tighter point that allows it to have a normal expression. 


Yes, sir. This is what you see goes on when we have panels, when we try to, you know, move the field forward with all this different conversation, except everyone's thinking about that. Jimmy, pre-undistivated my question. 


The first thing I try to do is what lens am I looking at? And I went to SIS, S-E-S, and I saw the person with the same low-end vision, low-end vision, high-end vision. And the opportunities for excitation were foreclosed. 


Partly due to medication, SSRI. And then the failure of differentiating parents. This is the non-prosecto school anxiety and plastic. We're going to control how you interface with the world. We'll differentiate. 


So just the extended that, the question, what do you do? Like, how much do you find the lens? Is that the tipping point on the dual control model or something? Contribute how we should think about these things. 


Even though we don't know the specific interventions. Excellent. I'm Sarah Mannerts, just a PhD. I wanted to bring a little bit of a plug for practice. So in my RAT model, we see that with experience, RATs get more interested in gaming. 


They find it rewarding. Whereas, when they're 90, they don't. But with practice, they get better. And I think that there's a reason for SSRIs, and I'm worried about RFPAs, and they have a way to farm. 


So we don't have to have them anymore. We can say because they are beneficial for people. But I'm also worried about just piling on more and more drugs. And so I think it's welcome to have the jaggery where they try to get the person to just practice. 


And I'm sorry, I don't really mean on the right. To me. Great idea, but just keep practicing. Because I posted this afternoon showing that RATs they get to watch them when they're 90 in their behavior, but as they keep practicing, they get better. 


And so if you can't overcome whatever neural problem there is, just look at that. Dr. Saramis, I am so glad that another rapper is here. Honestly, I know this is your first institution. I really, really, really hope that you will come every year. 


Because I've learned so much. Our basic research in this is so important. Thank you very much for being here. I would like to add one thing I always think about when people have primary and anortic asthma. 


Very often there's something in the way from that practice laying down those pleasures, pathways, or connections between the generals and the places in the graveyard that we knocked out. And for people who can learn that sometimes, actually, a medical marijuana. 


The marijuana can be very effective if you don't work as an disorder. As long as they can tolerate it, it opens up their ability to be in your sensations. And very often after they learn how to have your ads, they don't need the marijuana for that anymore. 


So it's kind of a learning. We'll be talking about that a bunch. I'd like to add something to what Ben was saying. That since there is a primary problem of nerve damage from the bike riding, that possibly another strategy, not to substitute any of the others, but another strategy could be to try an alternative sensory input that is capable of reducing orgasms, such as vaginal stimulation, vaginal cell stimulation, 


or with intercourse, because of the damage. to the penivular from the bike riding, that's external. So if she could try pelvic mirror stimulation, do I add the vaginal stimulation or mineral stimulation that also has a rhinogenic effect? 


So those would be not necessarily instead of the other treatment suggestions, but in addition, combine the other source of sensory of excitation and mind. Thank you. My name is Yaponya Decker. I'm a PA from In Your Bank. 


And when I talk to my site friends about things, they talk about counteracting the sexual side of that subscribe with things like helmet, the pulley, and mop and things like that. But I don't know. Just wondering if that's enough. 


I'm good. Okay. Any anecdotal? Okay. This is one of those areas where placebo effects are really as high. In fact, when we actually look at the literature, things that are used to treat SSRI-related side effects have a most of the highest rates of placebo effect of any of the different kinds of effects. 


We have to have treatments within legal sexual dysfunction research. So there's hundreds of things that people try to try to counteract the side effects. That's why it's really, really important, particularly in that indication that we have really good clinical trials and as Anita said, nothing outperforms placebo in these circumstances. 


And are you ever going to come up with that side effects themselves? Tindy, that's a really, really important point. And you brought up previously the point about first sexual experiences and the conversation having them at SSI's, you know, what is your expectation? 


Because expectation kind of puts a different lens on your eyes for what you think your experience is gonna be, and when you accommodate that for 30 years, never having pleasure, kind of enduring the pain, tapping down on your pain, and then letting somebody come inside you or whatever, what is the expectation? 


Because expectation activates the same neurotransmitter that we're talking about in our education and our recognition. The expectation is, yeah, that sucks, man. And exactly, and this is the pharmacy, as dad says, so when you try something to board off the SSRI, you get a high placebo effect. 


What we're talking about here is what we just said, try other things, try other things, like the nipple stimulation, the vagus nervous system, whatever it might be, that kind of activate the same things that the... 


They're still there, but your belief in placebo is now allowing you back. I'm a firm believer in placebo. I think they're fabulous. If they gauge where you need to be, if they allow you to change the behaviors that you're engaging in in a meaningful way. 


Ms. Scott, Annemarie, you are co-chair of this panel. You should be sitting on the floor. Yeah, I know, but I have to pen my luggage, so I have to. Please leave your comment on the floor because Annemarie is part of this panel. 


I'm here for her. I know it's always difficult to make cases because you really need to put something in there, but I think with young women, maybe we should also normalize a little bit. Because I think that having an umbrella is also something we need to learn to have. 


It's not something that you naturally are born to. I think you're naturally born to be able to, but you're maybe naturally born to be able to know how you're going to get it. I want to challenge them a little bit with bicycling. 


I mean, it doesn't mean we have so many people bicycling, we bicycle all the time. And I don't think we see a lot of people doing that much. So I think sometimes I get patients, they go on the end of the day and they say, oh, what about this bicycling? 


And they stick to that mom and say it's the bicycling. And then, you know, when we talk to them, we find out they never masturbated, they don't work quite the way I am. I think that, especially with younger people, we should be very careful of maybe, you know, giving them too many. 


This is the reason. And what does it expect? Maybe it's normal when you're very young and you have had anxiety that cannot have an organ. So what are the expectations that we're talking about? I think that's, I feel that everyday practices in that space of our cities, I think it's so important for us to talk to them and say what's their expectations? 


What, maybe it's quite normal when you're 20, if it is a rise or an action. Maybe it's that person who has an old accent. We'll see how can we help them, that's why we're here. So the normalizing education, like basic information, I think is so important too. 


I just want to make a brief comment. We heard several people on the panel say there's a high placebo effect. What is high? What do we know about high? Well, if you look, and Andrew Bradford, who I don't think is at the meeting, but is a longstanding member of Fish Region I system, looked at the placebo effect across a bunch of different endpoints, in sexual medicine, randomized chemical trials. 


And just like, or similar to, the psychiatric literature, the placebo effect is typically 60% of the treatment effect. So it's a really big number. And when we talk about at lunch today, some of the herbs, nuts, and berries of sexual medicine, if you ever remember, if there's a 60% placebo effect, It's really hard to show a treatment effect in addition to that. 


The one exception that I mean, and this is actually from Nick or his work, is that you go backwards with the real bell in the short term. Where we start to see motions with the differentiation is in the longer term. 


So that's where you go when you hit on a treatment that is still working for this person three months, six months, nine months down the road. So that's where you go when you hit on a real bell for this person that's still working for this person. 


Thank you. We'll move on to the last, oh, I'm sorry. Sorry, I have a last question. Carol, you are going to have a BTYN. Is there anything to do to do a reversal of the pudendal damage if there is, whether it's a viking or whatever? 


If I hear all these other medications, it can help her or I can ask them and increase the... excitation, but is there anything we can actually do that help reverse some of that damage? Yeah, so the stool therapy is probably the least invasive. 


There's a repeated steroid like the nerve plant that we use by percentestros, and some of these, but she has gone three days to do that nerve damage based on objective tests, but that's real. I know a lot of people bicycle in Europe and they don't get this, but this person did get this. 


But, you know, I guess it's explaining to the patient that nerve surgery is like really invasive. You know, other blocks are effective invasive too. This is very least invasive, and we chose the medicine to help with the situation, and they were successful for her. 


I guess we could come back to the pugetal nerve contribution after the medicine is part success, so I guess it would be another movement. Thanks. I'm not sure how far we'll get, but C.G. is a 56-year-old woman. 


She presented with bergasse and candy donuts, so she could, and she'd progress, and she received no pleasure even though her body was responding. She was having sex a couple of times a month. She did mind over and over time her temporal sensitivity had decreased. 


She had gone on her coccyx in her childhood, but she attributed her special dysfunction to the medications that she was on. She had been diagnosed with small fiber neuropathy. Her last menstrual period had been 54 years old. 


She was experiencing low back pain for many years, some of which radiated to her buttocks. She does experience pleasure from vaginal stimulation. She has sexual desire. She has orgasm, and she has no pleasure for orgasm, and it hasn't for like 40 years. 


You can see here at VISTA V, she's scored 34.8, so she's not our classic presentation of someone with sexual dysfunction. This is a list of her medications. I'm not going to go through it. I just posted it so that you can see that she's on a lot of things. 


Her labs are not particularly abnormal. Her physical exams, she has no pain and cognitive swell testing. But we did have quantitative sensory testing, so you can see her librational and large sensations abnormal. 


Her sacral dermatoma is abnormal. Her PCV flex in both right and left side are more uncomfortable at normal. So we put that all together that it's too good to be indicative of somebody with region 3 issues. 


And I know hopefully most of you have been coming to a switch now for the last few years to understand what we're trying to develop, the various regions of it. That's the sacral spinal. So here she is, she physically reaches or has some zero pleasure, what would you do? 


Take her off all the crap she's taking. We didn't put her on that, that's what she presented with. Anyone? Yes, Jake took the pose. It doesn't have to be in order, just in case. Yes, you have something to say to say it. 


I mean the cognitive damage, the cognitive damage, is very compelling in here. So obviously she would need to get a spine. You would need to know what the damage is and where. I mean is there, you know, look for spinal muscle in there, is there damage causing, you know, like there's a new look in kleosis. 


Can you look at things that are preventing anything from getting the spinal cord? I clearly want to look at all of that and come up with that, at least to be able to move it out. Very good. Well, here, there probably is damage to the cord of the quinum, but she's having the organs. 


So it's not blocking her ability to have an orgasm. She's not appreciating the orgasm that she has. So this might be a case of psychological inhibition of the pleasure of orgasm. And this might be a case for psychotherapy, to ask her if she has, what does give her pleasure? 


I remember speaking to a woman who had... I explained, she said that she has orgasms, but she has no pleasure from them. I said, well, do you have pleasure from anything? She says, no, nothing. Oh, wait, no, one thing. 


One thing, I can get pleasure from ordering online every time I get a package. I wonder, what's in it? That's really exciting for me. That's the only thing that gives me pleasure. She said this is a different kind of package. 


Treating this, I think, is probably one of the hardest challenges because, I think, we don't quite understand the differentiation between these neuro-substraints that really give us pleasurable experiences, but I would say that, in general, when I've seen this, people have insomnia in their lives, so I treated more from the perspective of how did they get into the termite and how did they get into the termite. 


How do they address ramping up the pleasure, and again, not to be repetitive for some of these people, marijuana. We're coming up on time, so I'll do a quick note and then you'll let the government tell us the solution. 


Next slide. I'm just so curious, given the meds that this person is on, are there either direct or indirect interaction effects that are acting on the reward pathway, associated with orgasm, right? Something that's happened on that, he's a poor little pathway, right? 


Because clearly the wanting pathway is working just fine because she's still having sex, she's still eating, right? But the reward effect is being hit somehow. So I'm really curious if there's opiates on board that are acting on that pathway, or if she has a history code, or if she's gotten really low to a back gate, that's often an issue that comes up. 


I'd just be curious if there's some combo that's happening here that's interfering with that. How do you agree to go about that? Right, do all the dope out of it. I mean, there's all been done, it's definitely going to diminish your dope out of the activation. 


The back of an act essentially is going to knock you out of both the dopamine and dopamine activation. So you've got like a whole host of things here. I mean, if she's taking DHEA, it's entirely possible that that could be active and testosterone, because one percent has a transdermal gel. 


It's not impossible. Yeah, exactly, right? So there could be some negative hormonal feedback as well on the whole system, so things don't get started. And when they do, you just don't feel anything. So you've got like a real kind of dampening of the whole reward path, right? 


Both will not be likely. So wait a second. So before we get to the thing, this is... a mess, this list, and no one can tease out what's good, what's bad, what's indifferent. So I think you've got to get off most of this. 


The other thing that all of us are going to be seeing, I promise you, this is a beat on you, nobody else, there's data. All the GLP ones and all the GIPs have major actions in the reward center of the brain, and we're going to see more of patients like this, I promise, keep your eyes open. 


So this person is about to be multifactorial. She did not have problems with pre-orgasms. Her problem was in the orgasm phase, at least that's because of the event of bio-chummy release happened. The sensation of stimulation happened, but there was an anti-d The intense pleasure, typically, of some people who are healthy, was missing, and that was really frustrating. 


So, when the industry pulled that pain, this had to contribute a history of productivity back from falling, and then when I was obtained, she had no fault of finding an annular tear. I felt by this one, an annular tear. 


In the presence of our testing, the annular tear, we went to Dr. Kim who was sitting right there, waiting to do that. Dr. Kim is my amazing colleague who, despite being a sponsor, understands sexuality, and in the conversations with her, they discussed the possibility of proceeding to a transfer in of a cathedral spirit, which I think... 


Head to the chaser, you have to leave. Head to the chaser if we have to get up. Head up, head up. Head up. Over the next two weeks, while in the presence of stearily, at the old She experienced the most intense orgasm, the mechanism, but she did experience improved pressures, and they're discussing going forward whether we should be moving in the interest of it. 


Thank you all for attending my stay this morning. Thank you to our panelists. We are extremely grateful to our panelists. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think we're gonna hear about what's happening with our societies. 


Thank you all for participating. 
