

This is the first time to attend this, um, is this week here? I'm from Japan and I have to share my knowledge to my colleagues in my country. So, what's the difference between the Volvodynia and Bistibulitis and Bistibodynia and the genital urinary syndrome? 


Volvodynia is a blanket term that only means pain in the vulva. So, arguably you could put everything in that category under the umbrella of Volvodynia. But you must have the pain. It's just urinary symptoms. 


GSM, or Geminal Urinary Syndrome of menopause, is more clearly defined, right? It's in menopausal patients and they're having the atrophy, the UTIs, because of the lack of hormone in the tissue. You can get the exact same syndrome if you're lactating, so we now are naming that GSM. 


And if you are shaking or... Yes, or contraceptive. And we call that hormonally mediated Bistibodynia. Bistibodynia, you said, not the urinary symptoms. I know, but it's basically the same mechanism and the same thing. 


We just confusingly name it something very different because the symptoms are usually mostly vestibular. But you can also have atrophy beyond the vestibulitis. So, it's a horrible naming system, which is why you have vestibulitis. 


Bistibiolytus is not used very much, at least in this community, anymore. Because that would mean inflammation of the vestibule, which some people do have, but a very small percentage. Okay. Bistibodynia. 


Dinnia means pain in the vestibular. So back to me from a variety of... Vestibular... Dinnia doesn't have the inflammation. No. Dinnia just means pain. Yes, yes, yes. Vestibular dinnia, so pain in the vestibular. 


I thought that most of the patient with the vestibular dinnia has the inflammation, but you said no. Not solely inflammation. Okay. A lot of it's hormonal. A lot of it's neuro-prolipidative. Yes. And then some of it is neuro-prolipidant and inflammatory. 


Okay, okay. So, vestibular dinnia sometimes cause the urea or urinary symptoms like the frequency. Yes. Because pelvic floor dysfunction can also cause vestibular dinnia. So if your whole pelvic floor is really tight, then you can have urinary symptoms from that. 


Okay, okay. So it's all very interconnected and comfortable. So when I talk to my patients who are taking the oral contraceptive and provoke the urinary symptoms, when I tell her, like, you have a vestibular-provoked vestibular dinnia, and she goes to the internet website and she couldn't find any urinary symptoms after the... 


It's probably because it's listed as like, like, four feet. Because it's all okay. Kind of the same thing. Thank you. Thank you very much. I don't know how helpful that was. Thank you very much. It was very helpful. 


A diagnostic algorithm for movidinnia that... which has, follows some of the branches and tries to separate into categories. All of them are Bostovilodinia. No, no, no. Unless they're... Bostovilodinia. 


Bostovilodinia is pain in the vulva. Okay. But usually now, when people say Bostovilodinia, they don't mean Bostovilodinia. They're mean pain in the vulva and not the rest. Okay, like... But that's really only people in this community that are going to see them that way. 


I know. I see. Doctors who are not in Ishwish are going to call everything Bostovilodinia and not even sub-categorize it the way you were trying to correctly do. Aww. It's very confusing. Yes. It is. 


Thank you very much. Excuse me. Oh, okay. Yeah. 
