

In addition, the researcher, the specialist in men's sexual health, especially with certain ED, perones, disease, and testosterone deficiency, is going to speak about the role of testosterone in men. 


And then our own board member at large, Dr. Rachel Rubin, rather than the researcher in specialist in sexual medicine, the Metropolitan Washington D.C. area, also a board of large members, like I mentioned, who will speak about the role of testosterone in females. 


So I'm not going to say any more. Dr. Sally, please. First of all, I'd like to thank all the scientific community for inviting me to speak with you, and as a professor, I'm also a professor of technology at the University of Florence, and I work with the director by Professor Linda Eats, and I'm talking about the physiology and basic science, also named testosterone. 


And testosterone in men is created by a testesor, and in women by the ovaries are the people who are in the room called L.A.H. There is also another source of fractional testosterone, which is the area of cortex, which is regulated by a completely different identity. 


I have to tell you what, what is called a CTA relation. The adrenaline production of testosterone is quite a religion in men, because it accounts for less than 5% of testosterone production, whereas it is quite important for females, because it represents 25% to 30% of testosterone production. 


Once it is secreted, testosterone is bound to bargain profits, that the most important of which is SATBT, which is a protein encoded by a genome, who is on a 17, which is calculated by several... factors, including this diode and inflammatory factors. 


SHBG really is testosterone at the end of the issues, and they are one of the testosterone that is released, it's called free testosterone, and it is free to provide its biological function that it can cross the cell membrane, and once it is within the cell, it finds the angiose receptor, which is a receptor that works in the body, it's like the process degrades into the nucleus, and it finds the DNA that's providing the fatase molecule in the gene transcription and providing the biological effects for testosterone. 


And biological effects for testosterone are direct to the angiose receptor, and that's why it's called free testosterone. by now, the new side, so the new side. For them, it causes several consequences, including the increase in mass-called mass in our mass, but this will lead to the rate of speed that we are at. 


It is involved, it's part of the self-exist, because it's several modifications during the work of the government, including the beginning of the rules. It is important to function for the movement. But the substance can act also through change in its structure to the modification of the form by the enzyme, as I've already said, which causes the transformation into the HP, either the substance, which is an angle of five to tenfold more powerful than the substance, 


but it is mainly involved in the function at the skill level, so high level, high level growth and development, and also for a function into the external and internal agenda. I think it's very interesting also to remember that testosterone could be also achieved by the enzyme, aerobic phase, into the estradiol and the struggling man has also very important functions, including the accrual of bone mass and also the important function in the brain, 


in fact, as shown by this important publication published more than years ago, that in a healthy young man undergoing a pharmacological expression and then replaced with testosterone, we forgot aromaphase inhibitors, those subjects received aromaphase inhibitors, so that's excluded all the function related to it. 


to desparari effects, experienced some important problem of sexual function, including a declining sexual desire before. It's a scenario that is extremely important for male sexual desire. But testosterone has already had a total delay in the sexual effort by Serbignon. 


It is extremely important also for female sexual function. Testosterone has a psychic situation throughout the menstrual cycle, with a peak immediately before the ovulatory phase. And this correlates with an increase in sexual desire and female-initiated sexual behavior. 


And overall, it is summarized by his analysis. Women, without sexual response, should have a significantly higher... But how testosterone can mobilize and have its effect on female sexual function, this is a study by a member of our team in Florence, who is a Maserati, that collaborated with Professor Faust, and also the sexual behavior in female recipe to have encounters with the main partner. 


And this, that's where we are. We had a different replacement. So our group had a replacement with only the records, or the seaboard, say. One of our group had a replacement with the DHT only. Another one had the estradiol and progesterone. 


So this is a bit physiological replacement. And a fourth group had the estradiol and DHT. The first two groups were the negative control and the third group was the positive control. And the experiment of the group, the treatment with the estradiol and DHT, had a similar behavior than the positive control and increased sexual behaviors than the negative control. 


So higher frequency of the lower causes and effective behaviors in general. And at the worst, sexual encounters, so in the main partner, there is even more amounts of inhibitions and inhibitions. So testosterone can motivate sexual desire and a search for sexual encounter in these animals. 


But testosterone can motivate not only the brain, the behavior, but also the peripheral response to these. This has been studied in our lab, where we evaluated, we studied the effect. of testosterone treatment on smart muscle cells of the cretois and the vagina are blessed from rats treated with testosterone and we found that testosterone is able to increase if you exceed the synthesis and similarly thus leading to relaxation which is exactly the same thing that happened in a smart muscle cell from penile carburetor which leads to penile reaction in this case. 


The testosterone is therefore able to increase the genital arousal but testosterone is very important for the vagina not only for the arousal but also to protect it from inflammation you know that that vagina is an organ that is open to several kind of inflammatory life and in this study from our lab, we showed that testosterone is able to prevent the expression of inflammatory genes used by the treatment with the lymphoma effect, 


which is MPS, in human, in zumbulous cosmos concern, from women in menopause. Therefore, the HD is able to reduce and prevent the inflammation in the vagina. This is quite curious to observe that similar observations were found in the prostate. 


So, this is a randomized introduction where we treated with placebo or testosterone of men with a BPH, and we noticed that men with testosterone had a significant reduction in expression of several inflammatory genes within the prostate, and this is well-shored by also the astrological preparation where the inflammatory infiltrate is dramatically reduced by the treatment with testosterone. 


So, now we can try to draw a similar figure in the female, similar to that that I reported from four males, and testosterone, if male can act on the brain, sex or desire, can act on the genital arousal, can regulate the inflammatory response. 


It is very important for over-infant function because it modulates the equipment and development of the follicles. It is obviously important to involve the brain. In the skill level, it causes hair development and growth. 


And it is also important for about composition. And yes, this is like being made. But testosterone, the action of the artisanal testosterone can be modulated by different conditions, physiological conditions. 


Among these, I would like to present to you the impact of binding proteins, of receptor polymorphisms, and also the role of 4C, 11-ox-C cartridges. Let's start from binding proteins. You know that SHPG is increased or decreased in different conditions. 


This is known mainly for men. It is similar effects that can be observed also in women. And what you want to be increased in SHPG can mean. is associated with a change in antigen action, which is well shown in this interesting study, performed in transgenic mice over expressing SHBG, where, despite having increased topopestoskeletal nucleating level, mild signs of antigen deficiency could be observed, 


including reduced weight of the pelvic floor. That's giving an evidence of the biological activity of SHBG. The biological activity, or the importance of evaluating SHBG for having a clear view of the antigen action, has been also studied by a one-room, but in the European religion study, which is a multi-center longitudinal study, with a video from up of four years, performed in men, middle ages to elderly men, 


and in this study, we evaluated the consequences of the increase in SHBG level over time, and we found that male experiencing an increase in SHBG over the four-month period had an increased incidence of algorithm-related symptoms, including sexual symptoms and reduced physical fever and softness. 


But it is more interesting to note that when we performed the same analysis by including only men that, despite an increase in SHBG, had normal freedom testosterone level at four-month, as expected, most of the associations were lost, but these men only for the increase in SHBG. 


independently of three testosterone levels had a decline in sex or thoughts, so the decline in sex or desire, and a decline in vigor in physical vigor, thus showing that SHPG can mark or can kill formation that's going on the testosterone levels immeasured with. 


The SHPG is also very important to be evaluated also in women. This is a study performed by our group on a 200, not the 200 women evaluated for sexual dysfunction where we observed that so women, we do. 


low SHBG levels had upwards and first metabolic profile, including the increased voice conferencing and BMI, increased glistenia, my index, and 3% identical where HDL cholesterol, but most importantly, they also have an increase in clinical RPI with a UT index, which is a marker of catatabolic risk. 


Let's go to receptor polymorphisms. The most important receptor polymorphisms is the number of CAG repeats that are present in the promoter of the gene encoding for the antigen receptor. This has been quite accidentally studied. 


These are data, again, from the European Relation Study, which shows that in the subject, we increased CAG repeats, which are associated with a reduced transcriptional efficiency of the antigen receptor, so it is quite a relative antigen insensitivity. 


In this manner, there is an increase in circulating testosterone levels, which is a compensation somehow of this relative antigen insensitivity. However, when looking at the clinical consequences, the increase in CAG repeats was not associated with any change in hypogonal symptoms. 


Their role of CAG repeats has been also studied in women. This is a study on 500 health female volunteers from the group of person onomatogelopathy. In these studies, it is shown that CAG repeats are not different between the groups of women without sexual dysfunction, except for FSFP or asthma. 


So women with impairment in their diagnostic function had lower than, rather than higher CAG repeats, which is quite an unexpected result. The last few words for C. melanoxia angiosensa, these are angiosensa downstream, the testosterone and the endosthenetidone, and this part of the serotogelis is present only in the adrenal cortex. 


These are quite relatively weak angiosensa and they could be, they could represent substrates for a convention in more powerful angiosensa in the periphery, including 11-catatosthenetidone, testosterone and 11-catodiation. 


These are angiosensa quite scarcely represented in male circulation. If you see testosterone in the first line, the difference is a dramatic swing. We could not expect that males, these angiosensa, could play an important role. 


But in women, there is a growing interest in these angiosensa especially, that has been especially studied in conditions characterized by angiogenic excess, including PCOS. And this is a study on 200 angiogen females without PCOS showing that the group of PCOS also had significantly increased C-11 angiosensa, and their levels were significantly associated, positively associated with a histotism, as mentioned by the Felemanin-Galway score. 


So these angiosensa seem to have a role in female. However, there is quite a lot of inconsistencies in data so far, data on C-11 angiosensa, because if you look at the data from the tonsil study, which is a large longitudinal study, in this specific paper... 


They also tried to evaluate the possible relationship, the possible predictive role of C11 androgens on the incidence of type 2 diabetes, and they did not find an association with the study with the C11 androgens based on an incidence of type 2 diabetes in women. 


But, quite surprisingly, this was the case for men, and thus again causing attention on the possible role that this androgen may have in the future. In conclusion, testosterone is extremely important for both for male and female sex or functional health. 


However, we should be aware that testosterone action may be affected by several conditions, including SHBG levels, so increased levels may lead to the effect of pathogens, and decreased SHBG levels are associated with markers or have metabolic risk. 


Data on the effects of adrenal receptor polymorphisms are still not really conclusive, maybe because an increase in SHBG repeats is associated with an increase in testosterone levels thus overcoming the possible effects of the increase in SHBG repeats. 


There are now limited studies on C-level andigence with conflicting results, and another study at the National Space Agency on sex or function. Therefore, these may represent an important new frontiers for research. 


And I'd like to thank all the friends and group members, Fatima El-Fesamid Amina, Sympestam Mariraje, and I thank you for the attention. Dr. Meyer, thank you for the invitation. So, I am a neurologist. 


I'm a doctor. I'm co-director of the Men's Health Center at Brown University and I'm on the faculty for family medicine and neurology. I'm going to talk about testosterone controversies, primarily lessons that we've learned from the perverse study, which is the long-term and safety study. 


These are my disclosures, a couple of testosterone small-term studies. testosterone companies that consult or multiple guideline panels that I've worked on. The objectives are to present the, what are the actual real-life indications for testosterone therapy, and then these days, which are related to specific medical conditions instead of testosterone for the aging male, and to discuss the most current data about the cardiometabolic risk, 


or the cardiovascular risk of testosterone therapy, and briefly summarize the findings about traverse, including depression, sexual function, and fracture studies, and lastly, to update the data on prostate cancer. 


But the prevalence of testosterone deficiency varies in multiple studies. It varies from 38% to the male again in 2006. which is basically the biochemical definition of testosterone deficiency, to 5% of erypho back in 2008. 


This is a study by Corona in 2015 where 20% of men were bound to be clinically symptomatic and have low levels in the Florence. And of those men, only 15% had testosterone deficiency related to a specific cause. 


And 85% were in the secondary hypogonado range which meant that their testosterone deficiency was related to their hypothalamus or pituitary gland not functioning. Most of the men that I see, and I see about 25 to 28 men a day for this condition, most of the men that I see have testosterone deficiency of the secondary type. 


And you'll quickly see that it's related to one of three comorbid disease states. But the FDA cautions that testosterone products in this country are only approved for testosterone deficiency related to specific medical conditions like client doctors or common syndrome or pituitary or damage from radiation or chemotherapy and not related to testosterone of aging or what they call comorbid deficiency disease states. 


So of these 85% men who have testosterone, second gen of this testosterone deficiency of a secondary age or. 70% of them, 71% of them, will have one in three conditions, diabetes, obesity, and metabolic syndrome. 


So the majority of the patients we treat and that I see every day are also legal. They're not on label, which is a difficulty in that all the guidelines talk about clinical signs and symptoms and low levels that have to be present for you to treat men for testosterone deficiency. 


However, the FDA says you only treat those men who have testosterone deficiency of specific medical conditions. So there's a real split in this country between the endocrine society and the AUA and what we treat, even though the endocrine guidelines also agree that men who are symptomatic should be treated. 


Whenever you see a man who has testosterone deficiency, you have to think that he has some reason for it. Either he has poor health, he's under a great deal of stress, he's going through divorce, or he's under great financial issues, or he has multiple comorbidities. 


And you need to look at the diagnosis of functional or age-related hypogonadism to prompt an assessment. It must include lifestyle changes. Every man should lose weight, who's obese, and exercise, and have enhanced care of his comorbidities. 


And you have to exclude obstructive sleep apnea. And what I'm saying for men is also improved for women who have testosterone deficiency. And the effects of testosterone therapy would include improvement of libido, it's less effective for improving erectile dysfunction, and it may have modest positive effects on insulin resistance, bone strength, and some measures of physical strength and mild depressive symptoms. 


Rachel and I were just talking, and we thought that as men age, they probably have more esfadiol than their female partners, and they probably have more protected minds and more protected hearts, but certainly less desire. 


And that might be a good thing if I don't know. So, testosterone therapy, in our belief, and this is part of the African society's belief, testosterone therapy should be offered to men with age-related or adult clinicals. 


hypogonadism, which is often equated to co-morbid testosterone deficiency. And many men who have levels done, who I see, very few of them are done by their providers. They're all initiated by the patients who've done reading. 


And they're all trying to explain why they're feeling so fatigued, so depressed, because these men are courageous. They're really arrogant. And living with them is not pleasant. What are the risks of testosterone therapy? 


Because we really need to focus on that, because there are many purported risks. Adverse effects may accompany any treatment. And the greatest safety concerns with testosterone therapy include cardiovascular risk, prostate cancer, and APH. 


They can also, testosterone can be responsible for infertility or diminished sperm counts, erythrocytosis or polycythemia, an elevated hematocrit, toothpick blood, kynecomastia, and potentially, perhaps, DVT or pulmonary embolus. 


So what about the cardiometabolic risk of testosterone therapy? You know, in the 1980s, the 1990s, testosterone therapy was rarely used for normal men. It was only used for those client doctors men. That's why the FDA felt it didn't need to amend until 2015. 


Until the release in 2001 of what product? Anecdote, testosterone gel, a topical gel. That was advertised by Abby on television, and suddenly, in 2012, testosterone therapy was the fastest-growing med in U.S. 


sales, averaging and growing by 33% a year, until two articles were published. In 2013, in JAMA, the Association of Testosterone Therapy with Mortality and Biocardial Infarction and Stroke, and in plus one, increased risk of non-fatal MI following testosterone therapy prescriptions in men. 


These two articles forced the FDA to call a meeting, a safety advisory board meeting, and subsequently amended the label for testosterone therapy to include the specific medical conditions that you saw, and also to note that there's increased cardiovascular risk associated with testosterone therapy. 


and despite the fact that these had major flaws, they were cross-sectional studies. So the FDA advisory committee said that there's a weak signal of cardiovascular risk from the results of this data, and that this label changed needed to include a warning about the cardiovascular effects. 


And this gave rise to the traverse study, the safety study. This was a directive in 2015. The study began in 2018 and was completed in 2023. We are requiring manufacturers of approved testosterone products to conduct a well-designed clinical trial to address the question of whether there's an increased risk of heart attack or stroke among users of these products. 


So, the DRAVERS study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, enrolling men between the ages of 40, 5, and 80 with the presence of cardiovascular disease or increased cardiovascular risk with levels below 300 nanograms per deciliter, 6,000 patients. 


Up to this point, the only study, the largest study that had been done with testosterone therapy, randomized, controlled trial with 780 men in the T trials died in 2016. And this was to have five years of follow-up. 


This was published in June of 2023, and based on the results of this study, testosterone was not associated with an increased overall cardiovascular risk, despite a higher incidence of pulmonary embolism, 0.9 percent, very low risk, but 0.9 percent versus 0.5 percent acute kidney injury and atrial fibrillation in the testosterone group. 


These were the equity criteria. You saw that men in their head had a stroke, heart attack, or peripheral vascular disease to be included in this study, or three risk factors, and they were randomized either to the gel that Abby made. 


Abby was the largest contributor to the study, and testosterone, 1.62 percent gel or placebo gel. Levels were drawn at 2, 4, 12, 26 weeks, and 12 months, 18 months, up to four years, and the dose titrations were automated to maintain levels between 350 and 750 nanograms per deciliter. 


I say that because we don't know what the mean levels were. were in this trial. We know the median levels and we know that gels get much lower levels than the most prescribed type of testosterone therapy in the US, which is presently parenteral therapy or injection therapy. 


The primary ed points were time from randomization to the first occurrence of mace, which was a composite of non-fatal mnemonic, non-fatal stroke or death, and that trial continued until 256 adjudicated major adverse events occurred. 


Secondary ed points included mace or procedures, which included PTCA or cathedge bypass surgery, or prostate safety, the incidence of prostate cancer, and also sexual signs and symptoms and remission of depression. 


So we looked at the improvement of all of these. clinical signs and symptoms in the study as well. It was an efficacy study with secondary endpoints. You can see that 55% of the men were between the ages of 45 and 65. 


Over 45% were greater than 65 years of age. The BMI, when most of these men were obese with the BMI of 35, their baseline testosterone level was 220, and their hematocrit was normal at 42. About 55% had pre-existing cardiovascular disease. 


About 45% had increased cardiovascular risk. About 70% were type 1 or type 2 diabetics, and 90, over 90% were hypertensive, and 85% were on lipid lowering therapy. This is the classic testosterone deficient patient. 


That patient has hypertension, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and is on his way to becoming a type 2 diabetic. So about the only one, about 40% of patients completed the style of the study of 2,596 who started. 


Only 1,000 completed. The average duration of the therapy was 22 months. The average duration of follow-up was under three years of time. The median, the average daily dose was just above the starting dose, which was about 645 milligrams per day. 


The average daily dose was 65 milligrams, and the median level was 354, which many people report is up. very low level. The truth is that they grew the levels the day before, the hour before starting new therapy, rather than doing it at three hours, like most of us do, who manage these patients. 


The primary and secondary endpoints you can see here, the primary cardiovascular safety endpoint showed that 7%, whether in the testosterone group or the placebo group, had adverse cardiovascular events. 


PE, again, 0.9 to 0.5, DVT, 0.6 to 0.5, and AFib was higher, bone fracture was higher in the testosterone group. The limitations of the study, adherence and retention, were lower than most cardiovascular studies, but actually... 


quite normal for testosterone trials. And cardiovascular safety findings were limited to this population, although this population in truth is the highest risk population because it was an older group of men. 


So in conclusion, the traverse study with almost 5,500 patients was the largest randomized placebo-controlled trial of hypogornado men to date. And among middle-aged and older men with hypogornadism who had a history of established cardiovascular disease and were at high risk for new cardiovascular events, testosterone did not increase this risk. 


So let's go very quickly through the sexual function and symptoms. 1160 men completed the sexual function sub-study, 587 to the gel, 574 to placebo. Primary outcome was a change in sexual activity and results showed that testosterone therapy was associated with significantly greater improvement in sexual activity and improvement in hypogornado symptoms and the treatment, in fact, was maintained at 24 months. 


Fractures, it was determined whether there were more fractures in the testosterone group. Of note, none of these studies have DEXA scans done so we couldn't tell whether these men were osteopenic at baseline or we couldn't tell whether there was enough time for them to develop further bone growth. 


The reason that the testosterone group might have had more fractures was that they had increased activity and the fractures, most of them, have occurred earlier in the study. study. In depression, you see three subject groups. 


The men who had significant depression and about 50% of men had significant depression, which was interesting by itself. And they also looked at men who were just finding or had low grade persistent depressive disorder. 


And this showed that there was an improvement in depression scores in the testosterone group and no change in the men who were chronically deciding. So what about testosterone crossing cancer? Well, testosterone remains contraindicated for use in prostate cancer. 


However, we know that testosterone does not cause an increase in prostate cancer or in cancer in situ in the prostate. The question is whether giving testosterone with a history of treated or untreated prostate cancer increases the risk of recurrence or progression and improved the prostate cancer safety study showed that in over 14,000 person years of follow-up, there was no significant increase in BPH or prostate cancer although there were very few new prostate cancers in this study. 


So in summary, cardiovascular-wise, the perverse study says it does not cause mace, it may cause PE, we don't know. In those men who have a history of gromophilia, in regards to sexual function, there was no improvement in ED, but some improvement in libido, an improvement in passion, no improvement in bone fracture, an improvement of anemia, and no improvement in diabetes. 


So in conclusion, low testosterone, as we all know, is associated with increased cardiovascular risk, testosterone therapy is not. Current data support a low cardiovascular risk profile menon to testosterone therapy, and likely improvements in cardio metabolic parameters, normalization of T levels may reduce mortality, MI and stroke, there's no data supporting an increased risk of prostate cancer or prostate cancer recurrence. 


Thank you. Thank you. Was everyone alright? Did you just hear what he said? That was a good lecture. That was a good lecture, and it was an important lecture. Actually, it was an unbelievably important lecture, and he was supposed to go after me. 


But I snuck in, and I said, can you go before me? Should you have data? And that's good, because you have data, and I don't have data. I don't have data, because students, testosterone doesn't deserve data, because we're women, and we don't make testosterone. 


So I'm going to do a puppy talk, because that's what I do best. And I am so grateful for that talk, because it's not that serious, OK? I had a patient just last week who said, my gynecologist told me the testosterone that you were giving me was dangerous, and I have to stop it, because it's bad for my heart, because that's it's bad for men's hearts. 


He said, my gynecologist said it's dangerous for men to take testosterone, so you should not be on testosterone. I said, wait a minute, I pulled up the Traverse Trial right there in the room, and I said, this has been in the New England Journal of Medicine, can you read this with me, right? 


So what are you talking about? It's not that serious, it's not that serious. So my disclosures today is I was not supposed to give this talk, the brilliant talk that Louise Newsen and Greg Burton were supposed to be here giving this talk, and I'll explain why she's not here today, so I'm honored to be here. 


My own disclosure today is my testosterone was 11. I love it, and this is neon testosterone, so I'm going to just say. So I'm going to just say. I'm honored to be here, I'm honored to be here. As troops, again, for Liam's work, because men's testosterone, I love. 


That's what I'm honored to do. Treating men with men's testosterone is a gift, it's truly a gift as Dr. Weiner will tell you, and men don't, men are castrate mostly, right? unless they have fat and sciacrostic cancer from castrate, and their gas canes get low. 


They get low, and they have so many symptoms. Their rectum, such low libido, metabolic disease, and they get real grumpy, as you just told us, and their depression gets better when you fill their gas canes. 


It is a privilege to get to give that gift to our male, which is how many people who have tried testosterone for a woman? It is a gift, it is truly wonderful. Women are castrated in the middle class. 


There's so low, right? You're talking so low levels, and so it is a gift to be able to give women back that testosterone as well. And for what you said, it's off-label use for men. It's off-label. It's not that serious. 


Where's the controversy? Where's the variety? Where's the yelling? Great, it's off-label use. And also, bad data gets repeated. The Traverse Trial was built off, as John said, two crappy studies that caused a box label to go on a product. 


Have you heard this before? Have I talked about this before? A box label with bad studies? and there's this thing, two or three letters, the W-H-I, like, oh, and oh, they repeat it, and they repeat it, and they use not the right product, they use a gel when everybody else uses an injection, so now people are saying, well, the data doesn't matter, because you use the gel when everybody uses an injection. 


Make it make sense, it's not controversial for men, but in women, it makes the gossip columns, which I'm about to show you, okay? Endocrinologists and neurologists disagree, oh, my. And the society of the AUA disagree, oh, my. 


It doesn't make it through the newspaper. It's science, and science evolves, so those are my disclosures today, so let's talk about controversies, because controversies make us all uncomfortable, right? 


Controversies are contentious, they're sexy, they're controversial, Um, and so, so let's talk about controversies. Let's talk about controversies in the room right now. Okay, I'm going to present a couple of controversies. 


There are people in this room that don't like me. It's true, I know you don't believe it, but there are those. Yeah, but I love them. Okay, so let's talk about it. Because we're going to get uncomfortable here. 


I, my present self and my future self, never agree with each other. I agree to do a talk in the future, and when I get there, I am very mad at myself. I'm very mad at myself because I don't know what I'm doing, right? 


I'm actually an introvert. This is a true story. You don't believe me, but I'm an introvert. Um, I love, you will agree with your parents, right? I don't agree, like, we all agree probably on 98% of the science, but not all of it. 


Okay, my mother just died, and I loved her dearly, but I don't agree with her politics, right? How can you love somebody and just group them significantly? I don't agree with my husband 100% of the time. 


I do, like, a lot more than that, right? I actually don't believe that I am smart enough to be on the stage talking to you, which is why it's crazy that I get to be here talking to you. It's a lot, right? 


So how about this controversy in the room? People have said this about me. I don't present enough science. It's for sure not enough science. There's a lot of data. We're not science-directed enough. Rachel Regan is not academic enough, right? 


I'm not the person who should be giving this talk. I'm just a lovely influencer, but the real experts do the talking. We don't all agree or disagree ever. Ever? I'm an undergrad, just for myself. How are we all going to be expected to agree with each other? 


But yet, there's global consensus. Do we agree as a global on anything? Yet, we have global consensus that testosterone use in women for HSDD is... and in this space. Where's the controversy? I'm talking about controversies here, this is global. 


And the brilliant, wonderful, incredible, amazing colleagues of mine published the use of testosterone. How to, we'll give you a guide, we'll tell you how to do it. We will write the prescriptions for you. 


Just read this damn paper that is open access. Bless all of you in this room who contributed to this incredible work. I'm just here supporting you. How about this? Thank you even more for our wonderful president, Linda Vignozi, who gives research after research of, holy crap, testosterone affects genitals! 


Okay? It's amazing, incredible, incredible. I just want to take several years off and come work in your lab and learn, because it is incredible. Maybe I'll read it to you because it sounds really nice, but it is incredible that testosterone is important for the genitals. 


That's not HSDB, right? ItsWish is doing this work. So is it a secret? Should we be quiet about this? Should we not tell anyone? The cat's out of the bag, my friend. I'm not the only one to blame. Okay, the cat is out of the bag. 


This local consensus, that people are talking about it. Testosterone replacement therapy surge in popularity among men and women. Midlife, the New York Times, midlife women are clamoring for testosterone. 


Does it work? Oh, consensus. As women turn to testosterone, here's what to know about the hormone and health risks. Oh, there's more. What to know about testosterone? There be as women as influencers tell about it. 


Prescribing, the guardian of my favorite, we're gonna do a lot of guardian work today. Prescribing testosterone therapy for middle-aged women is out of control. A look at women testosterone tomorrow. 


Good morning, America. This has made the concept columns. This was the speak. As menopause, this is why it helps to not do your talks early, people, because. As menopause wars rage, social media skirmishes erupt over new approaches to hormone therapy, and Sydney is about to be a flashpoint. 


At the heart of the conflict over menopause is the dosage of hormones being prescribed by a new breed of named female doctors. Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Was this new order data on the news about the Traverse Trial of the Disagreements between endocrinologists and urologists? 


I didn't see it. in the Guardian, I don't know, I don't subscribe. This new breed of female, mostly female, doctors. Welcome Dr. Louisa Newsom, who has 645,000 followers, Dr. Kelly Casperson, who is one of the number one leading podcasts on women's sexual health, all these are all ispish night, and 219,000 followers, and Dr. 


Merrick, their paper with 2.4 million followers on sexual health. Thank you Dr. Louisa, you are mostly female doctors. So where are they now? They're in Australia, speaking to 2,500 people at the Sydney Opera House, invited to talk about their house. 


Then we'll pause this time in a moment. Shh, God's supposed to talk about it. But there's a global consensus, a global consensus. So they're painting this cat, this is just science, we're just science, this is not cat fight. 


Okay, but they're painting the cafe. So who's in the head of this cafe? What, in a gardening article that just came out? One of our own. Dr. Susan Davis, who is an endocrinologist, right, endocrinologist, the urologist don't always agree from what I just heard you say. 


And what did she say? Well, it's your preeminent, what they're gonna talk about, but based on the track record, it is concerning. What movements these women? I don't know. Are they believing that they see the light where other people don't? 


They become evangelical about it. She wrote the Global Consensus. Global Consensus can't we all just get along, babe? Down under, right? That's supposed to be like a sexual attorney, down under, but right, here we go. 


So Susan Davis, who is not shy, is controversy, right? She just wrote a brilliant article about we need to revisit the tiny hypothesis in hormone replacement therapy. This idea 10 years after menopause, you know, after 60, it may not be the gospel, in fact. 


I've seen guidelines change just in my lifetime. From shortest amount of time, lowest to the shortest amount of time possible, the shift is to making. How beautiful to see the guidelines evolve. In fact, I got to interview Professor Davis from my Medscape blog because I'm an influencer. 


So I get to bring people in. And wait a minute, was it really that controversial? What does she say to me? It seems, you know, I know you've created Global Consensus with your colleagues, which that really shows that much of the data is based on low libido, and that there is some indication that testosterone in women is helpful for an HFPB, or hydroactive sexual desire disorder. 


Is there a hope in the research, or do you see the research expanding upon that in the future, and where would you like to see the research on testosterone go? So, category play there is very irreputeable evidence from randomized control trials, placebo-controlled trials, such as Sostra and Muhlenberg, in the majority of women. 


low-desire if that's a bother to them and it's most famous women since post-menopausal women. We've done two studies in pre-menopausal women between the ages of 35 and 45 bothered by low-desire. They're not large studies, the largest of them was just under 300 women and showing improvement in low-desire women in the latter part of their reproductive years. 


So I would like to see more research in that space. Me too. I like them, that's critically important. Me too. But we're also looking at testosterone in terms of upper effects on women. So presently our clinical studies are looking at effects on bone in women up to the age of 55. 


We're looking at effects on tannic function and heart failure in post-menopausal women. And we're also doing a big study of testosterone and muscle function power for women's mass. in post-medicose women. 


So I'm trying to better understand what rotisserie has in women beyond sexual function. And we're so grateful for your research and your work. That doesn't sound like a cat fight to me. That actually sounds like science, research, large studies, what else could it do? 


Questions. It sounds awesome. It sounds like she's actually gonna be teaching a good part of our formal course in this wish that you're all gonna sign up for because the experts are gonna teach us all about formal therapy. 


Do we all, do we have to all agree on 100% of things? Do we disagree? Like, is this really, truly a controversy? This is science. This is how science works. We tug of war, right? We tug of war. We have discourse. 


We talk through it. We say, well, that was silly that they chose the gel from the Traverse Trauma Party. Why did they choose the gel? Why didn't they do the injections? I don't know what I'm gonna get out of it. 


I'm gonna put it on my faces for it. I'm gonna put it on my chest, right? This is what science is. And so all of you sitting there with your popcorn, watching the cat fight, watching the controversy, and just deciding who you agree with. 


Are you on a team? Newsom? Or are you on a team? You know, there's someone else. Like, there's no teams. So what do we do? We have to let Susan Davis do all the research on testosterone therapy. Is she the only one? 


It's a little bit nosy. The only one who gets to do, thank you for existing. The only one who gets to do research in testosterone, it's hard because it's a controlled substance, right? We don't have a product. 


We have to figure out, we as a society, as Iswish, have to figure out how to study it better. I need you to publish more on topical estrogen testosterone purpose to be within you. I need you to publish more on vaginal testosterone. 


I need you to publish more on plural, you know, testosterone and muscle. We need more publications. because I don't want to go after Dr. Meiger and not have data to show you. We have to get to work. We have to. 


So we are the grown-ups. We are. They're not coming. I don't know if you've seen the news. The grown-ups are not coming. We are the grown-ups. And so what does that mean? We must. You may not be good at every one of these puzzle pieces. 


I am not good at every one of these puzzle pieces. I am acutely aware of my limitations. Research, education, advocacy, and mentorship. These are the puzzle pieces that we need in order to get better at this and roll up our sleeves and get to work. 


Do we really have no data about testosterone other than HSDD? Or is it just science being sciency? Right? We do have data. This was a cool paper that came out about that long ago. In the European literature, they showed there's tons of testosterone receptors all over the pelvic floor. 


In the McNosey Multiple Lectures, they told you there's multiple testosterone receptors everywhere. Fabulous. This is my favorite. This is why you all can't read just the abstract or just the conclusion. 


This was a randomized double-blood placebo control trial to look at our throughes in the row of people who use aromatase inhibitors. The conclusion, testosterone doesn't work. The middle part says, patients receiving testosterone reported an improvement in strength, lack of energy, urinary frequency, and stress incontinence. 


Just HSTDs? I don't think so. How about this? One of our research students published a whole paper looking at a large famous database that said females on testosterone therapy had a lower risk of major cardiac events, and DUT, and, hold on, I can't read, and malignant breast, you know, less breast cancer? 


What was that? Less breast cancer? Yeah. We've known about this, this adult train, she tells us there's testosterone research in women since the 1940s. It's not that new, right? Oh, there's not enough data. 


When is there gonna be enough data, okay? This was a lovely paper. This is why Ruiz Newsome was gonna give the talk, a lovely paper just published about the effects of transdermal testosterone therapy on mood and cognitive symptoms in carrying post-menopausal women. 


Okay, they looked at this, and they found that an overall mood improved more than cognition. 47% of women reported an improvement in mood. 39% reported an improvement in cognition. Do we need to be randomized for female control? 


Well, yeah, we need more of them, a lot, right? How about the symptoms that were loss of interest, a lot of decreased crime spells, loss of interest of sex memory problems were the least likely to improve. 


How about testosterone and headache? Maybe there's a link. Thank goodness people are looking at it. Just HSDD, I don't think so. T and AI after breast cancer, improvement in female sexual function, index, so much more than HSDD. 


In fact, everything improved in the FSFI in this particular study. How can you help? Have you guys enjoyed this much this weekend? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. How can you help? You can get involved. 


Let's talk about how I do. I talk to patients every single day, and I make observations on what they're experiencing. Just last week, I told you guys that it was late to make this talk. Oh, Dr. Rippon, my stress incontinence is so much better. 


Oh, Dr. Rippon, I lost my orgasm because 25 years ago, I was 38. Oh, I'm just not strong dropped. I was 38, they went away. They're back, which is very easy to make. Dr. Rippon, I can't unhear this. I feel like myself again. 


I can't hear it, they hear me all the time. I want that for all physicians. Research, the research just at this conference this weekend alone has been beautiful. testosterone among aging women, endothelial function, anti-depressant use, how is testosterone affecting all of these things? 


We've impacted testosterone women with chronic pain, musculoskeletal problems, and testosterone and sexual arousal, maybe not just HSCB. So together, not the cat fight, not the watching from the sidelines, together we do science. 


We get serious about this. And we need our influencers to help us because they help patients. They help patients get to good scientists. So what do I choose to do? I choose to support people doing advocacy. 


This is a cool project where the neurologists are getting together, they're getting together and saying, we must change that box labeling on testosterone. We must make it not a controlled substance. We must educate the importance of testosterone in men and women. 


How about the influencers? Well, this is cool. You can become an influencer if you really want to. They're not happier than you are just saying that. They're always like, ugh. You could be friends with an influencer. 


That's my approach, I try to be friends with them all. You could help an influencer with their content. They need content. They fuel their currency as content. You could get on their podcast, you could get in their ear, you can whisper to them, you could be friendly, bring them into the society so they have content that is evidence-based and scientifically factual. 


Is Eliza any fur in here? Are you here? How many people, so what do we do? Eliza Burr, amazing medical student, wants to study sexual side effects of GEO who won the inhibitor. She's on our sexual medicine research team. 


And so I said, hey, send me that study, that thing you want. And guess what? Mary Taylor, who is two million followers, posted it to her email list. How many people have now taken your survey, Eliza? 


Over 1,600. Over 1,600. I choose to use the influencers for good. They are not good or bad. writer wrong, but they are helpful to me because now we have 1,600 people that we wouldn't have had, okay? How about this? 


Is Cindy Messon in the room? I don't know if you're here. Cindy Messon has been to Israel longer than human, like forever, right? She supports, she educates, she sponsors, she brings her students here. 


She said, she said, I just got on Instagram, I have my followers and I'm so nervous that I hate making videos. I said, Cindy Messon, you're the person that needs to be getting loud on social media because you, our scientists, have been doing this for a very long time. 


Everybody get off the phone. Oh, Cindy Preston, right? And I said to her, I said, a scientist who mentors, sponsors, and supports countless people in the field of medicine that I love is the influencer that I need in the world. 


So me supporting you, getting you more followers, that work is a privilege. The world needs people like all of you to have a microphone, okay? What we are doing here, desserts the microphone. So let's pretend to be the broadcast that we need. 


Together, let's do it. Let's not have these fights. Thank you. Applause All right, we have time for questions and comments. I wonder if you'd like to fill in with the next. Thanks for a great talk. Great talk. 


It was great to have us with Dr. Weiner giving us such a wonderful study. Of course, we really wish he had one like that for us. But I did want to address the global consensus. Because I think that it does, when you make global consensus, you always have the problem that everybody has to have consensus. 


But I'm interested in how you discuss the SHU tubing or biological metabolic marker, and whether or not you feel that we should actually be considering SHU for monitoring our patients on testosterone. 


Because the global consensus statement says that we should consider total testosterone only. And I feel that in practice, it's not really practical and probably isn't correct. So since you're studying testosterone women and you've done so much work on SHU, I'd love to hear your professional opinion. 


Thank you for this question. Actually, there was at least quite controversial also in the media, where the studies are much more. But in this part of the assessment, for example, in the narcissistic community, so I think that this movement in this role, we should expand the use of SHB-T, also in other conditions, for example, sex or function. 


So far, there's not so much stuff in terms of the world. to be considered in how we monitor patients as well, if the patient has a very high SHPG and that's going to occur test-loss term, elevated, or pre-test-loss term is normal. 


Do any of you have an opinion on whether that's actually a reasonable thing to do in that context? Dr. Simon would tell you that the trials showed that the higher SHPG may not have the same effect, but it was one dose, right? 


It wasn't half of one batch dose that they do, so we need more data. You know, it's really interesting for the male guidelines that we have, the eight-way guidelines, they're very similar to the global consensus, so it's actually not that different. 


The total T is also agreed upon on the male side. They don't look at SHPG, though many of the experts secretly do on the side when they don't tell anybody. They do. And, you know, where you put them on test stuff, where their SHPG goes down, of course. 


And when it's high, it points towards overall higher risk of mortality. So I don't think we know the whole story. Well, we don't know the whole story since women outlive men. A lot of their SHPGs are, like, many times higher than everybody. 


They are women. They are going to be more often, not the highest-income issues. They've been on moral assertions. They're part of their life. They're trying to entertain what's going on. Any other questions? 


Hi. I'm a particular person here from Saskatchewan, Canada. So just a side comment. A little after we got to Canada, one of the popular limitations is because we have coverage of their urban care. So that's going to be a little option that we have in Canada. 


But one kind of common question I wanted to get asked, Dr. Meyer, you really kind of rushed over, and you said you had a question, as long as it was. Dr. Bincay said it. We're having trouble hearing you for something similar. 


I'm just really rushing to kind of rush over how deeply flawed that thing is. I mean, I don't have any of my opinions on it. I don't have a contract data to actually give you the opposite results. No, because most of the children that are in the hospital have money from the hospital. 


So that was the last time we were in the hospital. Oh, the study, the baby study, the study... It had a tremendous impact. And that was in September of 2013. And then the Pickles study was published in February of 2014. 


Those two studies... caused the New York Times editorial court to say, we're on this negative journey. That vegan study, actually the statistical analysis was completely flawed. We have an independent statistical analysis study, and it showed that this trial was, the results were reversed, where they actually presented their individuals on testosterone therapy that were at much lower risk for events than those who were on placebo, 


who received the placebo or the program. And also there were 1,000 women and the 6,000 individuals who were included in that study, so they didn't even know that until they reviewed their data again. 


So many organizations called for removing that study from publication, but it was never removed. And it was the best study has been sent to me on numerous occasions by cardiologists, who will chastise me for replacing their patients with a history of coronary disease onto testosterone therapy. 


And I explained to them that we're doing this in conjunction with lifestyle, exercise, and diet. You can't get men to exercise unless you give them tools. And just like I tell them, to you, for you to go on testosterone and not exercise, it's a repeat of all purpose. 


This firm deeply understands you. You're in a safe relationship. We've been through this in half ten t-shirts. I think the only last thing I'll just say is, as often as copies develop, you know, why do you treat a replicated condition? 


And my common belief response to that is, we're going to stop treating these related conditions. We're going to stop paying attention treatment. We're going to stop this leukemia treatment. So if we're okay with stopping all of that, sure, I'll listen. 


But until that day, we're, you know, there's no reason why we can't take advantage of these t-shirts when medicine has given us to make us feel good for those gifts. So I'm not going to make a shameless plug for my podcast in which many of you have made yes in helping spread the gospel about midlife, sexuality, and warm-up therapy. 


But I'm going to ask the question, I guess, to Dr. Rubin. Someone even has asked me here, one of the medical providers, testosterone delivery systems for women. That seems to be very controversial. Delivery systems? 


Yes, like the pellet versus gel versus, but we don't have a patch, so. So, let's talk about men for a second. We've got multiple delivery systems. We've got gels, we've got different types of gels, we've got soaps, kind of like the pony soaps that you use, you know, at a bathroom. 


We've got injections, we've got injections sub-Q, we've got injections IM. We've got multiple different types of pills now that you can take, which are really cool and lower SHHAG it seems like. It's very exciting. 


We've got pillows that are FDA-approved. We've got all sorts of options for men. Do we truly believe that women can't have multiple delivery systems of testosterone? No, none of us, I don't think, believe that. 


We just don't have FDA-approved options. So in this moment in time, I choose safety. I think safety is the best way to go, and I feel that even though I have my lots of beef with the FDA, and I guess whatever it looks like right now, I don't know what the future looks like, but I know what I'm getting with an FDA-approved male version of testosterone. 


So that's what many of my colleagues use, that's what's recommended in the... global consensus and in the ISWISH guidelines. So if a pellet company would like to do the work and cared enough about women to go put people over profits and would like to do the grown-up work of going through the FDA and getting safety studies, I believe there probably could be other delivery systems of testosterone that are perfectly safe for women. 


So it's not, we don't believe in it, it's that there's just no products. And so that's the challenge. And so it's similar, hyper, super physiologic levels and testosterone, and I can't really concern a lot of people, right, because of the adverse events that are possible. 


That being said, you know, women will go to wherever they can to find whatever they need because they want to feel better. Thank you. We actually just yesterday released the label changes for testosterone therapy. 


It did, it will include the traverse study findings at this point in time. They did not change the label in saying that it should not be used for aging men. So you got a label change, huh? It's possible, so it's possible to get a label change, huh? 


Roll up your sleeves. So, first a comment and a question for Pam. The comment is that in the entire intrinsic testosterone patch in studies for women, there were several thousand women on trial for six months or more. 


And there were no sexual positive responders from the SHPG XC 170. So, I don't suggest we measure it normally. I think it's... still controversial in both women and men, but in a non-responder whose testosterone total seems normal and they're not responding, either you're treating for the wrong thing, which is certainly impossible, or it might be worth checking their SHPG to see if it's above 170. 


My question for the panel and for all of you is we don't have a testosterone product anywhere in the world that's approved for women, except for Australia, then it includes Italy, the United States, Canada, et cetera. 


And what do you think we can do to move the regulators out of the way, given the traverse data? So, Marnier. gave us a lot of help here. Average levels in those men were 350. I know a woman is not a small man. 


I figured that out, okay? But if the average level in men was 350 in traverse, and the average men weight in the United States is 200 pounds, and the average woman's weight in the United States is 170, if you fit a woman weighs 80% of a man, or a man weighs 120% of a woman, that would mean that we could give 200, neanderograms per deciliter to women, and it would still be safe. 


I didn't say that was the right level, but we could give from 350 to 200 is the same amount of testosterone that a woman, average woman, would get in the U.S. If she was getting the same amount as men. 


So it's gotta be safe, right? Nobody's recommending we give women 200 neanderograms per milliliter. It's gotta be safe, so what's the problem? How do we give the regulators to see it's not the problem? 


I think it takes research, education, advocacy, and mentorship, it takes the influencers, it takes people being on the number one Apple podcast, and Sharon Parrish went on the Peter Tia podcast, and she talked about it. 


Mo Carolina, Peter Tia podcast, and she talked about it. Thank God, those wonderful humans who are science-driven and evidence-based, because people listening to those all have influence in different ways, and so it can't be one conversation. 


It has to be every conversation. It has to be lots of conversations. We haven't moved the needle yet. We have a box labeling on the vaginal estrogen. We have a lot of work to do, and everyone has their own agenda, and I think ASWISH needs to work together to literally figure out a strategic plan, and they need to partner with the Sexual Medicine Society of North America. 


They need to work with the AUA, which has the guidelines in testosterone therapy, and actually is advocates that go to the hill and do advocacy. So I think this is where we can't just sit around complaining and being victims of saying, woe is us, woe is us, we don't have a product. 


We have to find a path. We have to work with whoever will help us get to that path. That's my own opinion. You've been on this road a while. No, I think that's exactly the place to go. Because the FDA, you can invite the FDA here, you won't come. 


We've been inviting them several times. You have to go to them. That's the only way it works. And there are reasonable people most of the time. I'm your best friend. Well, first off, I'm a therapeutic fan. 


First time here, I'm a medicine physician. I just want to say that by being here, I just diagnosed a patient today. that has low testosterone, younger patients. So we couldn't really figure out who I was wrong with him. 


Secondary hypogranism, low testosterone, even urology, something about it. He's like, I'm up later, I don't, you figure it out. And of course he's 36, he's just gonna go to get a pellet somewhere if we don't do something for him. 


So my question is, any thoughts on treating younger males, in my realization when you gave your talk was that he is using marijuana and it didn't click until you gave that talk. And I'm like, oh yeah, that's what's causing all of this. 


With how prevalent it is that marijuana gives in younger populations, is there any thoughts on treating it or even, I didn't even think about this before today? Well, so I, we do a lute nice and hormone on every patient to check their LA's in relationship to give a diagnosis, the cause. 


Many younger men have low levels and I'll use and comatine these days, which is the trans iceberg of comatine citrate because there's no tolerance to it like comatine and it appears to be safe and there's less estradiol elevation in men. 


I don't treat men under the age of 40, generally with testosterone therapy unless they are certain that they know who I am. Because of the fertility. Because of the fertility. Because of fertility. Because I try to bring that up. 


I mean, there's, I don't believe that testosterone will prevail. to prevent fertility indefinitely, but it can make it more difficult. And I don't want to see them pop up, because they can change their mind. 


So there are options, and if you're using test software, you can use low-dose human-coronary gonadotropin with it to create a particular genesis and create sperm within so that they'll come back for at least like 500 units three times a week. 


So I think that answers your question. Thank you. Hey, I'm Amber Hall. I'm a pediatrician in Las Vegas and kind of an up-and-coming influencer, if you will, on substaff. So I do a lot of writing about culturally-relevant issues, including menopause and sexual health. 


I had a published article this morning about sex work. to go along with the talk that I gave in the store. So what I try to do is integrate academic medicine into these culturally relevant topics and deliver them in a way that's accessible to the public, where doctors who aren't in this room are also paying attention. 


My concern is that with the NIH funding drying up and certain trigger words, like women, being on the sitless for studies that are going to be not funded, what, if anything, are you guys hearing about in terms of people's research being like, with the funding being withdrawn, because how are we going to get more research if we're not being backed by one of the biggest funders available to us? 


Does that question make sense? We are all terrified. We don't have any answer. There are no grown-ups telling us the answers. The grown-ups don't know what's going on. And the answer is never before, because there has been a more important time for us to find money other places, to ask their friends, parents, neighbors for money, to create more ways. 


We've donated $50,000 to research grants. That's not enough. We're going to have to add that up a whole lot more. And so we have to be talking about it, and trying to, while everything is burning down, we have to keep moving forward with actions, even small actions, maybe actions any way that we can. 


All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I just want to add, this wish and other organizations need to actually get together, contact Congress people, contact senators. These people are scared of the administration, and we need to empower them to not be scared of the administration, and to understand that half the population of the country actually matters. 


And excising them for grant titles is a type of with doe dressing that hasn't really happened since the 1930s in another part of the world. So Marty will correct me if my memory is wrong, but I thought this would be an amusing thing to end this particular section. 


Marty, my memory is that a study that found that thousands of women in this study of men wasn't to get recruited from the VA and ridiculously presumed if it's a better possible demand. Yeah, they just made the assumption that they were open. 


Yeah, unbelievable. But as you said, as the VA is getting so many questions about testosterone for women, they're being forced to come up with draft guidance of giving women testosterone therapy guess who's treatment they use to draft the guidance? 


Global consensus. Right? So it's changing, which is so because the influencers are getting loud. People are looking to your science and your data to make changes. Your message is perfect. Thank you. Thank you. 


Thank you for the mixer, the monitor ball, right at 3530. Yeah, I'm not ready. I've always been very good at fixing people's work and dance. 
