

So if you don't know me, I'm Megan Passada, I am not a medical provider, but I do research on mental health and pretty much anything interesting you can convince me to get involved in as long as there is 20 man powers to do it. 


So if you have ideas afterwards, feel free to share those with me. When we discussed this state of the art lecture on ethics and legal challenges, it was before the election and the inauguration, we didn't quite know what would be a food base here in the U.S. 


But I said, how different am I to be in the conference, we don't all share the same viewpoints or the same political views, so I want to be mindful of the fact that we all have some different opinions, but I think the one thing that we all can agree on, whether we're in the U.S. 


or one of our international collaborators, is that we, as an age group, we've been trying to set up a recovery body and to steal racial improvements, slow getting sexual health discount. So I think that it's really important that we advocate for that and that we listen. 


Sometimes it's easier to want to get up and run your mouth, but I think we need to listen. And that's really kind of the key to helping understand other people's viewpoints and lived experience so we can be better at figuring out solutions at work, not just for one viewpoint, but for as many times as possible. 


So I am incredibly lucky to have landed moderating this session because I've gotten to work with some really amazing folks up here. So Dr. Lucinda Canty is a certified nurse midwife and an associate professor of nursing at the She earned a bachelor's degree in nursing from Columbia, a master's degree from Yale, and a Ph.D. 


from the University of Connecticut. So an incredible pedigree. So I don't know how we got here, but I feel really lucky. and recommended her and it worked out really well. And Dr. Kinsey has provided reproductive health care for over 30 years. 


She founded Lucinda's House, a black maternal health collective to promote maternal health equity through community collaboration and programs for life support and education. Her research interests include addressing racial disparities in reproductive health, promoting diversity in nursing, and historical research in nursing and nubibery. 


She uses her lived experience as a black woman, history, poetry, art, and research to improve maternal health outcomes among black women, which we know is pretty distressing in this country. She is a fellow in the American Academy of Nursing, the American College of Nursing Midwives and the National Black Nurses Association as a preliminary fellow in the Academy of Diversity Leaders in Nursing. 


Dr. Kinsey's work is also featured in the documentary, Everybody's Work, Healing What Harms Us All. And then we're also lucky to be joined by Dr. Tetchkin and Dr. June Law degree, although people don't tend to call lawyers that, but Dr. 


Jennifer Lanoff is a board certified women's health gender related nurse practitioner. And she currently has a GYN only practice at writer Hill and Johnson and sees patients in their Washington DC Chevy Chase Maryland and Falls Church, Virginia. 


She is a Menopause Society Formally NAMS certified provider and currently serves as the chair of the Menopause Society Education Committee. She also serves on the body agencies medical expert board, not National Menopause Foundation's medical advisory committee. 


Jennifer, Jr. on her own stays at Stanford University, receiving her MSN at John Hopkins School of Nursing and her women's health nurse practitioner and degree from Georgetown School of Nursing. So we had another incredible head rape. 


But prior to getting into the medical field, she actually earned a law degree from the University of Michigan and was a proud appellate attorney for over 20 years and a public defender, so just the District of Columbia. 


So I think she has a unique perspective on some of the legal issues that we're facing and where they intersect with healthcare. So without further ado, I'd like to call the synagogue up to talk first. 


And after each speaker has talked a little bit, we're gonna have some time for something a little less additional. So we're going to do like a fire site chat, where we're gonna ask some questions that are prepared of our speakers and try to be mindful. 


So I ask her to try to be mindful and present, if possible. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm grateful to be here. I want to start with a poem, called The Intent of the Invitation. I was invited to the party, but I was not allowed to see her. 


While the movements were beautiful, I realized I could not see any traces of myself. Where was I in this sequence of expressions? when I fit in when I never learned his facts. As the dance became more complex, I could see myself floating further and further away. 


I was given a scene at the table, but I wasn't allowed to speak. Expected to sit quietly while others spoke their truths, using a language I never understood. Were so eloquent, I could not see myself eradicating, I could see them eradicating my existence. 


My silent sleep of my own sentence, I never consented to. My contributions are absent, it is never an experiment. My challenges never heard, my story never told. It was as though I did not exist. Maybe, just maybe, I was not expected to accept the limitation. 


For some of us, this is how we feel when we're in certain spaces, especially when it comes to speaking that I've helped. A lot of times, we will see ourselves unless we're talking about diseases or problems. 


where our race is looked at as a risk factor. It's important to understand history so that we can understand how people show up and present themselves in front of us. So it's just so important for us to keep that in mind. 


And today, now here we go. So today, I'm going to share a little bit about history. Before I get into it, I'm gonna just introduce myself I'm a very smooth white, as the name will say, I've been practicing for 30 years. 


I was about five years when I started. So that helped me get into it all. I would talk to you in the future. I take a black women's approach. Then I just have a little bit of ways to become black women when I'm studying and looking at issues that relate to them. 


I love being in the community. I love history, I love storytelling, and I love the arts. And you'll see my artwork without the presentation. And I have no financial disclosures. And again, I just want people to see us when we're in their presence and understand that we do have a history. 


We have things that are important to us. We have families that hear about us and want us to do well. So it's just about us being seen in spaces where we're often not, but we should. But it's just important to keep in mind that we all wanna take care of our bodies and we all wanna live our best, especially to be there for those of us who need us in their lives. 


And so these are just subject to experience within the program, so I'm not gonna go into them, but just that I'm gonna focus on some history. I can't go into all the history, so I'm just gonna touch on some highlights and really just, I just really wanna inform as I can bring it to the present day. 


And we do have a very big full history in the United States, especially when it comes to reproductive health. When you look at the lens of black history, the moment that Latinos put their feet on this land, even I should say, during the middle of- We didn't have control over our reproductive health. 


There's a history of a long history of sexual violence, of people making assumptions about who we are, and really making assumptions in a way so that we can be easily violated. Unfortunately, that's our history. 


And also, I just also want to say that my presentation is going to focus on some parts of our history, but keep in mind that myself as a black woman, I love history. This is where I get my strength. This is how I was able to last in Woodbury for 30 years. 


So just keep in mind, it is difficult to hear at times, but this is our reality. And we've known that there's history of women having certain foods, female sterilization without their consent. They have told many farmers in the picture here, she was told that she's going in for apodectomy and was sterilized. 


It was not told that consent to that. We hear about women who are incarcerated. who were told that they could be released a little early if they consented, or others against saying there's an emergency, you have to do a surgery, and not believe no one is understanding that they were being sterilized. 


And we heard about the refugee camps, where women were, it was actually a person, I was a whistleblower, who was saying that they were performing these procedures, and again, women didn't understand the language and didn't understand what was being done to them. 


And it's really just about consent. I have moms that may have their third baby, sometimes at first, and I'm like, I'm not doing this again. Take everything out. And I'm like, no, I'm not willing to think about it for a little bit, let's talk. 


But it's about having a consent, and being able to have that control over your body. We've heard stories about nuts to women, immigrant women, and I'm indigenous women, also having these procedures done, and are still living today with those scars. 


One of the most heartbreaking situations I had was a young lady who was actually an immigrant here, and she was only 21, I was trying to get her pregnant, and couldn't understand why. She had two other children, got her records, she had to externalize her without letting her know. 


So while she was thinking she had an infertility issue, and she would not even walk out if we didn't get her records, because she said she had a cesarean, we're just thinking that a complication happened, when we learned the truth of her story. 


And what does a 21-year-old do that wants to have other children? So it was just one of the heartbreaking situations. It may have heard about the story of modern gynecology, the modern gynecology was in turn, that was all these people's use, but they changed it around as this history was uncovered. 


In Arca, Lucia, that scene, they were all enslaved women that had surgical procedures to unline them, so they could learn to caress certain gynecological things that we're doing today. So, and I can assure you, her and Marianne Simmons, and the most shocking thing was that these women didn't have anything to do with it. 


anesthesia and once they heal there was surgery done on them again. They say some of them as many as 27 times that you can imagine and again it's that powerlessness of not having to get control over your body but your body being used as an instrument to learn and you're not even the one that's benefiting from it. 


So again it's looking at another part of our dark history. And I just want to share my midwifery. I haven't heard about midwifery until I was a senior in my nursing program. I saw a woman coming down the hall screaming, a woman jumped in to deliver her baby in the hallway, and I saw a mother went from screaming to she was in love. 


And I was like I want to do that, what was that? And I ran into her. And I ran into her. And I made up my father who's from Blue Boy, South Carolina, and I said yeah. I want to become a midwife I saw, you know, in school. 


And he was like, you didn't know about midwives? How do you think I got here? And so that's how I was learning to learn about it. And even at that time, I would learn about first midwives. I didn't know about traditional midwives. 


And I just want to share this history because I'm just still in the place to see today. So we're looking at, midwifery has always been important. Like these are, I'm gonna focus on black African midwives, how when they came over and slaved, they brought those skills and traditions with them. 


And it was passed down. We were not sitting at eight, it was university and it was nursing school and it was midwifery school. A lot of our training happened in the community. So there was apprenticeships. 


And during these apprenticeships, the senior midwife would not allow that midwife to work on their own unless they were proven to be safe. So they made sure of that. So when I first started looking at medical journals, and I went all the way back to like the 1900s, there was a lot of negative things about midwives. 


There were a midwife problem, they were ignorant, they were superstitious, they were old, illiterate, and they were unsafe. When I started to do my own research, and I had to do traditional midwives, I had to be nurse midwives, and I learned the opposite, that they provided safe care in their community with the resources they had. 


And it was not the midwives that put the women out there. It was the circumstances where they lived, the racism, the segregation, the racism in housing, by inner opportunities. Those are what took place living at risk, not the midwives. 


The midwives would go into, and this is a midwife that I spoke to, who said that she went to a home, and they didn't have anything in the home, no running water or electricity, but she delivered that baby, and that momma baby was safe. 


She never lost a baby. So as I started to go deeper, I heard those stories, but I also heard how there was a community around pregnancy and childbirth. that everybody in the community would help other with items for the baby. 


They'd be sure there was warm water, because if they didn't have warm water inside, someone heating water up for them. Someone caring for the kids. Someone supporting the midwife. Everyone in the community is looking out for them. 


But when birds transferred from the home to the hospital, for black women, that community was taken away, and they were put into a system that we still continue to see issues today. Even our most recent maternal mortality rates, all other races and ethnicities, they don't have Native Americans on this yet, I haven't seen those statistics yet, but everyone else decreased except for black women. 


It was a small increase, but if you can see the tremendous disparities that exist, so that gap actually widened. And to know that 80% of these deaths are preventable is even more disturbing. And so for me, my history is putting me on a journey to try to learn and understand. 


Because when I first started looking into, even just reproductive health disparities, where we're seeing, we're on, we see disparities across infertility, such as transmitted diseases, HIV, life fretting on pregnancy complications, you see lack of relief in all those areas. 


And I was like, I don't know why. I was told that they were poor. They were uneducated. They don't care. Even the colleagues said, oh, they have a bunch of diseases. But when you start to see pictures of Serena Williams, she is not what you just told me. 


So that sent me on a journey to try to understand. And when we look at research, at this time, it's about 2015, no one was talking to black women about their experiences in child growth. I only found three studies out of thousands. 


I'm telling you, I know how to do a lip review like nobody's business. Nobody's business. And so because I was searching for those stories, so I just want to highlight two stories that I did on my own. 


One was looking at women who had life fretting conditions during childbirth. And I'll never share the findings with that, because I'm going to combine with another study that I most recently did, is looking at the living experience of women who experience pregnancy loss. 


And I just want to say that this study came out of being in the community, and I know who talks about pregnancy. I do a childbirth class, and someone will come up to you and say, I have a loss. Are you going to do something on that? 


So before I decide to do a program supporting women who have loss, I want to do the research. And the number one thing that I found throughout both my research studies is that women want a positive relationship with their health care providers. 


And those who did, I even had one woman who had rheoplasia, her blood pressure would not go down, her liver and kidneys weren't impacted, and she said I was almost out of your depth. But my provider, I can tell that he cared for me, that he took the time to make sure that I was safe, and I knew he was fighting for me. 


And so even though she had the experience, she was back on the possibility because her provider was there. The other side of that is women who felt like they were part of someone's routine. My provider were illicitly including nurses, obese, family practitioners, nurse practitioners, nurses, this is everyone who came in contact with that patient. 


They would say, they came in, they did my blood pressure, they asked my A scale, and then they were gone. There was no compassion in the care. They just felt like, oh, they're doing their checklists, and then they're going to be gone. 


One woman who has severe hemorrhage, she said, you know, I'm not typical, there was no, but I want to be home, because I knew at home I would be loved and cared for. So I just want to stress how important that relationship is. 


And women are so concerned right now. They're scared to get pregnant, those who even had their pregnancies, they were the, you know, they started certain I was gonna survive, and I'm still living with that trauma. 


So it's so important for us to at least have some check in on their mental health and wellbeing. Some women just wanna be heard. I have women that just tell me their story because they want someone to know what they went through. 


And that's all that they want from them, is to be seen and heard, and their experience is not in their head. So it's just really important to recognize how race does make a difference. I know we're not supposed to talk about race anymore. 


I'm a black woman, I can't help it. I'm a racist. I'm a racist. I'm a racist. But race is a social construct, but it has very real implications, and we often have to think about what that means in part on the experiences. 


And just, you know, again, I was told that just being a black was a risk factor, but I found that not to be true. It's not race, it's racism. It's what we're going through in our daily lives. And that's the piece that's often challenging, and even for me as a nurse and his wife, when I went back for my PhD, I was a midwifery for 20 years, and I'm not going in my PhD program. 


I'm like, oh, this is an education and everybody's gonna be here, but I thought the system was deeper than that. And so for me, I had a record with that, and decide what was I gonna do to address it. 


And I just wanna touch on just really quickly the levels of racism. Because if we're looking at health disparities, we're looking at improving health outcomes in the community, we have to think about racism and other things that are oppressive. 


And personally mediated, we all know, internalized, we don't often talk about it a lot, but that person who, throughout their lives, just keep hearing negative things about who they are. So you negative things on television and the news. 


It's really about what do they do and how can they care for themselves so they feel like they're not worthy of even getting quality health care. For me, the one I realized I didn't know about and will write in my face all the time is the institutionalized, the structural and systemic racism. 


Because this embed is so deep within our health care system, any one of us could become a part of that. And I felt like I became a part of that. And it wasn't until I was doing my research that I was like, you know, we could do better. 


But when policies and procedures harm someone, and I hate when something happened to a patient, and someone said, well, we followed the policy, you know, we didn't follow the procedure. So something that's wrong with that policy or procedure, someone is harmed. 


And that just means that we don't accept it and just keep moving. We have to do something to make a change, especially if we know, again, that it's harming someone. And so I just want to talk about how racism does show up in care. 


Because again, it's not always in someone's face, it could be very subtle. Just a lack of acknowledgement when someone had chosen a groom. I've had two spaces, and I'm like, I'm a tall, big black woman, I don't even see me, but I felt invisible. 


Have you ever experienced that you walk in the room and you're seeing, but you're not really seeing that hybrid of visibility? And imagine your patient going in for something that's so sensitive. Our reproductive health has been a lot of cultures that's very sacred. 


So when we're going for help, we really need help, and we need support. Having disrespect from any member of the healthcare team, whether it's someone at the front desk checking you in, I say walking into my doctor's office, especially when there was one particular receptionist there. 


I was like, God help me, because I wasn't seeing. And sure, please, do you really have an appointment? Those kind of things when you, again, you're coming in because you want to be held. But also just being able, I'm not having a medical history properly obtained, not doing a physical assessment. 


I've seen people told, and I have read claims, they told, oh, you're fine. And they didn't have a blood pressure taking. And so now, two hours later, they're coming back and you're severe. And it's because they weren't assessed properly, or actually wasn't taken properly initially. 


But also, poor communication with the healthcare provider, especially if that something is going on and you're not sharing that. Or the other thing is when it comes to health information, I can't tell you how many women said, oh, they told you that it was okay. 


And then they don't know what really happened. They don't know what tests were done, why they're on this medication. They don't know what their labs mean when they even get the results. So they're searching for information. 


And in today's world, I tell people, Google takes you places you don't want to go, especially if you're trying to look up your health. I have a woman who kind of like, She moved with it, she thought she had gangrene. 


It even brought pictures of gangrene. So again, it takes you places you don't want to go. But one of the most, what I wanted to finish here, would just say, women being misunderstood or judged. And when we're looking, especially historically, at racism, we're thinking, we always look at pain. 


And historically, for black women, during slavery, pain was meant that you could handle hard labor. You could accept sexual violence. You could accept being harmed, but because you don't feel pain, you could go back and keep working. 


There's no reason for you to take a break. And we're still seeing that today. And a lot of our textbooks, even our nursing textbook, they finally removed the race, but they said, my Hispanic women exaggerate their pain. 


They have Asian women who are quiet, even if they're experiencing a lot of pain. And they may not tell you the first time. When I told my friend that from Vietnam, she was like, that's ridiculous. She told me she used cuss words, but I have to be professional. 


Do that, that's not true. I'm just saying, I'm gonna tell you. But some of those things that have been historical are still living with us. And it does show in the care that our patients receive. And pain is one of them. 


Not even having an opinion adequately managed. One of my themes was entitled standardized care, but I want to change it to I can only give you Tylenol. Have you all heard that? So that's already just missing somebody's pain. 


And one of those patients had a ruptured atopic. But she was told they thought she was making her pain until she ruptured. So the last part I just want to say here is just about giving adequate resources. 


Because that's where disparities come in. Not receiving adequate information. And here I already talked about the pain. It is just that they said white women are more likely to have their pain assessed. 


And this is after two study factors sincerely. And they're even have higher pain scores, but are less likely to be medicated adequately. And even having major surgery, given ibuprofen instead of possibly purpose set. 


And just another way that it shows up is that they say 20% of women report this treatment during maternity care. So this is actually women giving birth. Where they were yelled at, ignored, refused a request for help. 


Didn't have their information either private. Like they could hear people in the hallway talking about them. Especially when they wanted to wait and think about having a procedure done. And sometimes they were even threatened when they decided not to have an officer or procedure. 


And they just wanted a little time to think. So it was just amazing the experiences that women have. I recently provided support to a woman who was, they were trying to induce her at 37 weeks. She was now at... 


and they wanted her to go for a long-term monitor and they said, we'll probably have to deliver you. And she did not want to go. So she had to sign out A&M when she was leaving. They were like, you don't even have a stillbirth. 


Can you imagine someone being told that? So I took my connection to find, I found a midwife for her to see. At the hospital, I fully evaluated her. She had been delivering at 39 weeks, and it was a rebound. 


So she was very proud of herself. And again, it was just getting her to support information. And what I'm seeing now is that women are being told things that are true, but because there's a lot of trust, they don't want to believe it. 


And that also puts women in a very scary place. So I will finish here, and just want to say just some things that are needed, because I want you guys to go into the legal aspects. I want you to think about this history, but I also want you to think about some things and also where do you sit in this as a provider or a future provider. 


So I'm going to open this really quickly so we can have time for questions, but care that focuses on physical and mental health and well-being, that will recognize the race and racism and educating yourself on that and understanding our history, but also focusing on prevention, providing adequate information, and culturally appropriate care. 


We have to understand the communities that we're working with. We don't want to be a source of trauma or harm. We want to be supportive and helpful. But also for us to be aware of how we show up when we're seeing our patients. 


I have a mom who had a Laza 18 piece that she was there to be evaluated. She said her provider came in wearing flip-flops and was holding a slurpee. So she's already dealing with the trauma she's experiencing. 


She looks like this person doesn't care. I know this person doesn't care about me. And I just want to end with providing non-judgmental and unconditional support. It doesn't matter what happened before you got here. 


You're here right now. I'm going to make sure you get the best quality of health care. So I'll end right there. Thank you. Applause I'm Danielle Allen. I'm stepping into the first part of the argument. 


I'm supposed to be here today to talk about all the things that are on the blade of democracy forward, which is where she works as a parent. She's trying to get the democracy. So I think on the off, because I'm next person in the country, we all have a million lives. 


It's extremely boring. Even I wasn't yesterday. I was like, I don't want to hear that. I think we would normally think of that as talk, we would think about what is sent, and how we balance all of those things with our patients' needs. 


I think given what is going on in this country right now, there is an incredible shift in legal landscape, and I think we have to prepare for how we divide care under a lot of new restrictions, how to prevent removal of ethical and clinical challenges, criminalization of reproductive and sexual health care, access, and ethical dilemmas and legal restrictions, contradict our best practices. 


To warrant these quick foundational principles, I think we always think about autonomy, provider responsibilities, and technical and sexual health care to build on these core principles. or form choices where they actually have understanding of what they are doing. 


And our responsibility to them as clinicians, we have to balance that mix between constraints. The next most important thing I think we have to think about is, as we just heard, these are incredibly important considerations for all of us, and I think they are under attack in this new administration. 


We have to think about geographic economic disparities because access to care is not equal, economic barriers, cultural and holistic barriers, barriers to all kinds of discrimination, adolescents who we treat, who have privacy concerns. 


And so we really have to start to be aware of our limitations in the states and using telemedicine in our professional networks to support our patients. So yeah, this is basically the same thing, but we have to think about what our ethical responsibilities are. 


I think we all know the documentation, the textbook that you enter for your patients. We have to think, everything we write down, think about what this will look like in a courtroom. Because if you want to make sure that you are protected and your patient is protected, that is the single most important thing we have to do. 


We obviously, in this brain world, I struggle with my patient portal every day. We really have to learn how to see the patient's professional boundaries intact, because I think our patients have unlimited access to us, and if not in necessarily a medical situation, whether seeking advice or just sort of giving them advice. 


So I think we have to be really careful about how we are taking clear records of what we're doing, clear records of what we're talking about, and maintaining these boundaries. So, let me know if this is the same thing. 


But yes, I think we all have to be very careful about what we're doing over the next four years. And risk management, I think we all know a lot about this. This mostly has to do with the only thing about that practice, and how we're going to... 


handle things that, you know, patients do us. But I think we are now also having to think about the new laws that are going to be targeting clinicians for gender and learning care, the tele-laws restricting access to care for reproductive rights, and changing insurance policies that will limit members' sexual health concerns. 


But I think we all can prepare for this by just anticipating what's going to happen before it happens, and being very aware is so easy to take your head and stand, like I've been doing. And the last thing we're going to think about is everyone's stress for the whole world. 


But there's a lot of stuff that's going on that's really scary, and I think we all, as clinicians, have to protect our patients and ourselves. So, legal risks are going to vary state by state, not practice insurance, and lawyers are watching us carefully, because they know what the new rules are, and they know that we know them very well. 


So we need to constantly be up to date with what the legal risks are, what our institutional policies are that will protect us. and what our support systems are in terms of peer networks and community education. 


The other thing to tell us is a controversial area because we don't know to what extent things are being listened to, what can be accessed, what can be seen of. I think we all, patients are constantly looking on our phones, we're in search engines, I think we all need to tell our patients if these are not necessarily free from scrutiny, I think people might be, we don't know what's gonna happen or whether those checks are gonna be looked at, 


so I think we need to let our patients go back. I don't know how much I think these are, but I do, what I just gave you, a couple of things that I think the one that we really need to think about, because I think we all understand that, for example, with Dr. 


Bell, we should have the central batteries to tap the patient's button. Dr. Carpenter, this is the time that I took care of, I'm sure you all heard of, she's an immunotopter and she has prescribed abortion medication to a patient in Texas. 


And to go to Texas, the governor has now asked for her to be extradited to stay on trial for about eight times as well. And this can happen any less. So I think we, and women, we are, I mean, we are not that country, but it's not gonna let her go there, but I think we all should be thinking about that's why we're doing this bad work, and it's not just abortions. 


I think at some point we're gonna be turning to other things. I mean, there's a lot of it, there's a lot of people in litigation about sexual dysfunction, and who loses these lawsuits, and most of them are one of the patients arguing that there is a deviation from practice or lack of consent. 


Okay, so I'm gonna try not to discuss everyone as much as possible. Okay, so, over the next four years, state-based restrictions on reproductive health care, criminalization of certain treatments, even if they can stand up there in the past, congress could be in federal and state policies, and we can't pursue any stability because of law enforcement. 


Even yesterday, HHS Secretary, Robert Kennedy, and the commissioner, somebody called the Richardson Waiver, which has been released in 1971, which basically allows HHS to repeal policies on Medicaid, NIH funding, and other programs that have a single bin of publications in front of our opponents. 


It was put in place for protection, for transparency, and that has been gone. So we need to be watching. We need to have our watch done to understand what's happening in agencies no longer, just with solicit comments on their decisions. 


Last week, the Department of Health and Resources received a 2022 guidance to protect transgendered patients, including an instruction on discrimination for health care and privacy rights. This was obviously the month from the whole administration's access, but that members to access, to limited access to gender-free care. 


Republicans are doing things with birth control, trying to, to, to set it as something that is early merciful, but really is important. Early family planning, which is what they're saying. They're no longer covering ID's, and no longer covering problems. 


They're just promoting family planning. So that's just how it all came out. And obviously, most of you know about all of these places that over fell is the right Spanish case, and of course, that army, there's legislation introduced to overturn that. 


The obviously, you know, it's the abortion case. And FDA is aligned to bring to private medicine. It's the Denver-Cristone case, and whether the FDA would offer these regulations to get it passed. Tend to be incur our both review of bans on gender-affirming care. 


And we're still defending the Supreme Court. And so, obviously, I think we all talk about this. I talked about the credit restriction, about the threat to health, increase of those clinicians, confidence of a person on their rights, and tell about limitations. 


I think that the state monitoring is starting to restrict abortion. Obviously, emergency contraception is going to be under attack. And I think it all comes down to our capacity to be proud of it, to really protect our finance and to defend ourselves. 


So, the bans are not as obvious. Some people, through a birth control ban, the explicit group of Republicans are really being gradual with this now approach. They're targeting fairly vulnerable populations, and they are denying among individuals in public health programs that they need to prevent pregnancies. 


These are all under faith-based justifications to make people think that they are popular, but they're not. It's a feeling of deliberate strategy to make people think that they are popular. So, that's basically what I just said. 


So, one of them, by the way, you can only take my diary. with three branches of government, so. So, one of the main, so this is probably 25, I'm sure you guys have heard about this. It is, it was the Republican play law, it dropped early in, and I think we all have thought and thought, there's no way this is gonna happen to us. 


And basically, the goal is a consolidation of power in the executive branch, which I think you've already been seeing day to day, the administration is saying they're going to buy core holdings, they're gonna buy some for the judicial branch, the legislative branch is for us, like this term, it seems to be just doing whatever the president asked me to do. 


So, there are some really crucial barriers that are gonna be removed from all the power and decision making. The ninth and the sixth document, so have fun with doing it, but it's pretty impressive. The first thing I think we all probably saw, the CDC removed the vertical guidelines. 


One of the things they did last week was they scrubbed all the information. on the HIPAA page about protections for reproductive rights from the HHS and all of that is really scary on pharmacies obligations not to discriminate against patients when they're required and they're not allowed. 


So, there are no more guidance for pharmacists and I think we're gonna start to see that more and more often. Yes, just based on the HIPAA guidance, and so also no guidance on the ultimate protection so we can basically guess that as we started to go to people's phones, go to people's laptop records and the pharmacy vaccination. 


So, these are just a couple of the examples of I think what we are going to be seeing over the next couple of years, fertilizing abortion medication, allowing hospitals to refuse life saving abortions, redefining weekly signs of emergency contraception, banning money for organizations that assist any people without the help, encouraging harassment of patients and providers and I think even all the big that these, 


sorry I went a little bit, that these will, these are the main impacts we're all talking about. So, I mean, I just thought that's just one of my ideas, so I, in a civil way, it's not just health. I mean, social security administration is closing the office of civil rights. 


I mean, this is a pretty amazing thing to see on the front pages of the newspaper, sorry, but this is a huge agency for our government and they have been monitoring the office which I'm going to be able to go away, but these are really important things that we need to be talking to our patients about which will be a lot of trauma, a lot of fear and I think we need to make sure that we are understanding and talking to the physicians about patients. 


Here we go, conclusions. So I think what's really, that we cannot be complacent with all of this. I think we have to be aware of all the ethical challenges in women's sexual health over the next four years. 


We have to, for example, I just saw a five-month next slide, they just issued a statement yesterday right after the agent's secretary issued his statement with a lack of transparency and they urged them to not, to think it was a mistake of anger and transparency. 


So I think we have to be really active in our political groups to pressure people not to accept it. I think as clinicians, we have some mutual power in that way because people trust us. And so I think we constantly have to be advocating for our patients. 


We have to be vigilant about what's happening. We have to really collaborate with other organizations. And we need education and awareness for us all constantly because it's always evolving. You don't know what the ethics are. 


We have to be really careful, can we? give gender-affirming care. Is it safe to have our patients in danger? We need to get arrested. There are a lot of things that are really scary right now, so I think we all have to be very aware and make sure we're not taking care of our health and the family. 


These are just a couple. I don't even know if I really like these, but I sort of put them together. They're obviously professional organizations, but they're a controversial number of legal, they're a number of legal, I don't know, I guess we've got to move on. 


There are agencies that are trying to help organize, but even more important than this, because I do think there are a lot of people who didn't like DC, I'm in DC every day. I work with these people forever. 


There are a lot of people who are really excited about representing people who feel that they have some ethical problem, professional problem, so I encourage everyone, I'm just putting my stuff up there, reach out. 


I think it's really important for me to give advice. Obviously, I'm not trying to get advice today in specific situations, but I think it's really important to reach out, make sure you're protecting yourself, make sure you're protecting your patients, because I think we are all at risk here, and I think it's pretty scary. 


So I don't use Airbnb, but I think we have to start taking this stuff very seriously, because I think we all thought if everything happened, that maybe it would be okay, but I don't think it's gonna be okay. 


Sorry. So there you are. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so now we're gonna transition to a fireside chat-type style to kind of have this feel a little bit more personal and think after it. So after all that motive, really distressing stuff, I think I'm gonna try to see some optimism in there. 


So my first question here is for Dr. Kante, and what I wanna know is considering all of this and knowing that patients of all kinds are coming to us with trauma. how do you approach patients with trauma-informed violence to prevent further argument and health support? 


I think it goes to just allowing them to kind of tell us what they do instead of us telling them what they do and giving them that space to talk about it. If there's so much confusion that's coming out and people are scared, so I'm just really trying to ground people to stay, let's say in a here and now, what's happening now with you? 


What are you eating today? And not so much focus on all the confusion that's on the television. Because for me, that takes a lot of unnecessary energy, and I value the energy to move things forward so that way. 


And then I have another prepared question. This one's for Jennifer. So trying to put this to being a bit more positive and open up to audience questions. I'm gonna hand it over to you. It's okay. I want to know what your advice is to societies like IshWish and ISSM and the Medical Society and all of our groups that are connected to us in one way or another. 


What can we do to help you medicate for central health and for women's reproductive rights? I think what you've heard of the most powerful thing that I saw before is a huge group of physicians who signed the document. 


I think that was really powerful. I think even if you got confirmed, I think it's really great just to develop a really sweet by the fact that he and his team do not have the confidence of the people who we trust the most. 


And so I think we have to do important work with other organizations. I think we have to remind ourselves because we have a lot of calm down needs. So leaders organizations like the Society for Family Planning, obviously AECOM, and the College of Health Society, even there, to name a few. 


And I think we all just have to band together to really see what's coming. And I love the fact that AECOM did that to me the next day because they're really putting themselves out there. And I think we have to start to try to be happy to be issuing that kind of statement. 


So I'm really making sure that people understand what they are losing when they leave you quiet. Well, I'd like to thank Tia, very nicely, for Tia over there, who is our new advocacy chair for IshWish. 


I wanted to emphasize how important what Jen was mentioning about being visible. And if we have to change our messaging later, we need to be solid. But one thing I did want to mention just since you brought up cybersecurity, one of our residents gave amazing grand rounds about how exposed we as providers are in terms of cybersecurity and in our patients. 


And one of the initiatives I want to do is to basically take a lot of information and make that handout of how we can protect ourselves. Like do we want them to move to signal? And I'll provide them that stage work. 


But period tracking apps are actually going to sell our data. and which ones are protected. Just to give people real information, things like flow include, like flow explicitly preserves the right to turn over more than the minimum amount of information requested by law enforcement. 


Clue and other continuing to store and sell data after being called in to stop until the union does not delete the data from the preservers. But sometimes they're actually all right. If you keep your periodical, all the prioritized user privacy pledge not to sell data or store more than is strictly necessary and have open source code. 


So remember, this is all like something that needs to investigate you in your care. So I just wanted to put a buffer, pay any attention if you guys are not already funding cyber security, you want to get involved with us. 


Thank you. Thank you. And so I also want to point out any of you in the audience that are issue issue members or are considering becoming issue issue members, I'm sure that Anita and all the other folks that are currently on the advocacy team are going to need help. 


So. Please volunteer if you are able. Okay, so we'll take questions from over here now. Thanks to both of you for doing the great job to explain the number is something that we've included to keep this from getting the health care that we need. 


But I also want to point out that we don't want to just be thinking about how we protect ourselves. And I respect our humanity, just that as a person, as an abortion provider, we're always looking for ways that we can protect ourselves, but we also want to think about not cooperating with the territories and the local body and the district party programs. 


Thank you. Thank you. It's easy for all of us to use a little bit of our power to remember how we used our knowledge and our credibility, as long as we still have it, to make sure that we can do advanced provisions for our patients, that we can find ways wherever we live, wherever our laws are to increase access to the care that's being restricted, that's being removed, and also to put pressure on the people who do participate if a lawyer is first, 


instead of working with these scientists and the community medical providers, to say that we're going to push back against the legal restrictions that might harm us because we have a net qualification to really care for our patients. 


We do that in little ways, whether it's just giving advanced permission or teaching people how to use that thing. We start making sure that people have it when they might not need it and educate and educate people in safer ways. 


I think we can actually say that we don't have to cooperate. Woo-hoo! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to say on that, that I think sometimes we don't realize the power that we do have as providers. 


And for me, my patients always came first. Working on reproductive health, I have to learn how to navigate so my patients have a thing needed. So I'm like looking through those slides and I'm like, I'm going to go to somebody's jail. 


So instead of being scared. I'm raising down money because I'm not rolling over and just taking it because my experience and my expertise has value in providing care and I know still in our healthcare system, you're creating issues that's going to create more cause, more assisted costs, more mortality, severe morbidity that can lead to disability. 


So anyways, I just feel that I'm not going to just take it and I know they're trying to use that concept so much to confuse us, but we just have to stay focused and stay focused on what we're doing and we have to be ready to fight. 


That's just how I feel about it. Before you just talk to someone before you make these statements, I just want to know when we're talking to our patients, we have to be really careful with the lively exposures for them as well as for us because we're both in it together. 


We want to make sure that everyone understands because, you know, if we're not doing it, we're out. I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid. I'm telling all the black women in this country, I am not afraid. I'm not afraid. 


I would say if you have any question from this mic over here, if you don't mind introducing yourself to it before you make your comment or question and try to speak, the question is concise. Of course. 


So, Francis Gilcarisino, a neurologist from Saskatchewan, Canada, where you don't have quite the same breasts or a pair of sprays out there, where you place a visit, come see, we're happy to fill this shop. 


Anyways, my question is more towards some of the commentary around racism and identifying it. Some of the institutionalized places, quite frankly, is currently in a lot of our medical education programs, particularly when you look at how different skin conditions appear in melanin skin versus normal. 


All of our houses are in white skin. And where the question of what some of your opinions is, obviously we don't want to be dismissive of people based on race, culture, and all the rest of this, but sometimes we also have to look at them differently. 


We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. 


We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. 


We have to look at them differently. We have to look at them differently. I'm going to try that. Now I'm going back to me. I'm going back to me. I'm going back to me. I'm going back to you. I'm going back to you. 


A lot of like we look at how we work on text book and I'm no sorry physical assessment text book. It was not one picture of a person of color. So one of the nurses she was having some of, she let it get so severe that she didn't know what it was. 


And she said, I just realized, I've never saw, I didn't learn how to look at the skin color. So it's very important that for us to teach, we have to look at what's in our textbook, but we can't be stuck there. 


And it's different when you're looking at someone's face, and you're basing everything on a stereotype, or everything about them is negative. But in what you're saying, you know, I want to learn how to look at darker skin, because I want to catch skin cancer early. 


Or I want to see this kind of rash, you know, how to treat it right away before it's, you know, or maybe this signifies a different, another disease. So I want to catch it early. So it's different when it's looking at their best interest. 


And again, it's not saying they're a disease, because disease doesn't discriminate. We discriminate in our care. And that's where the problems end up coming in. So for us as providers, we have to be better prepared, but we also have to teach our students. 


For those of us who are in education, we have to teach our students. that you have to be aware of this. And, you know, I did certain sections of my nursing textbook. I'm like, you have to reach that page up. 


Because we're not in a box. We're outside of a box. But how do you learn about someone who comes from a congestive improvement? And that's really the key. And so when you're doing it in a way that's respecting them for who they are, not treating them like they need the pathology or the stereotypes you see on television, then that can get you into trouble. 


But having conversations, and patients appreciate that. When you acknowledge, you know, their skin, their hair, you see them, and you provide that space for them in the sense of, you're concerned. So they do show you a rash. 


And you're like, oh, I've never thought about that skin. But let me take you someone who understands. You're helping that patient out. Patients love when we acknowledge our limitations, too. But we're saying, if you care about me enough, that I'm gonna make sure I find the right person to care for you. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And we have a question from over here now. My name is Joanna. I'm the most efficient of being in New York City. What kind of match is the revolution I know in this country? 


I'm so stuck there lately. So is listening. So you don't have to listen to the kind of system you're in. That's just what we need. And I say this from a place of, when I had my first, and I fought for anything, I was having a challenge, and I was having a challenge, and I said to my doctor, so I would agree. 


I said, well, there's nothing wrong with you. All you're allowed is a bond and a involvement and a policy and procedures. And I said, it's not a panic, like nobody. But I was able to actually pretend to have something to talk with for a reason. 


And she said, no, there's nothing I can do for you. And I had to fight for it. And I remember when I told it, I generally don't question doctors. So I had that, but I failed to do that because I was a little bit different now. 


So I had to pull from that moment. And then I changed the doctor, only to find out how to have her body telling the answer. So I could have died. And we know that 80% of this is preventable, but we're not doing enough to change these narratives. 


Like the policy I was used to there, but who's father? Who's father is father? What does that feel? Like we need our voices to be heard. And we need people to be part of it. Well, it turned out I was not part of it. 


I'm just trying to. Thank you. Thank you. I think it's really quickly about, first, definitely listening to our patients. And it was also the previous question. Some cultures don't have to ask any questions. 


You just listen to whatever is being told. So when you have to keep that in mind, and I do that with every patient, regardless of where they're from, if I was in their seat, what would I want to know? 


What knowledge do I have that she's not asking about what she needs to know? But the number one thing is to listen to our patients. And actually a really quick story. This is how I do my own lesson. Having a young lady come in, had two pregnancies, was on a double shot, so she gave birth. 


She probably had three or four shots. I've seen her now, and she's like, I feel a baby moving. And I'm like, she's in my hand, I'm like, she can't, because she's been on the shot. I was this close to just giving her a shot and sending her on her way. 


But I said, let me just take a few minutes and touch her belly. As soon as I put my hand, I can feel the baby kicking me. So for myself, I learned that I couldn't fit another one that you were the person in their symptoms, and they know their body. 


I had patients on my thumb, like I said, they told me it was gas, and we left the battle and they were fine, but I didn't want to take that chance. So for myself, I had to learn. She had, it only takes a few minutes to just turn a quick exam. 


And she was 32 weeks pregnant. She had to deliver that term and her previous date for a free term. So I think because we left her alone, I left her and went here to turn. So anyways, I just want to share, we have to listen to what our patients are telling us. 


Thank you for sharing your experience. Dr. Simon. So I'm Dr. Simon in my office. For the last 15 years is five months from the White House, that White House. And I wanted to make it out of the vision from the standpoint that my daughter has been a Secret Service agent for the last 20 years, one of the first women ever to make it. 


She's tough. I've never seen her being afraid except in the last three months. Afraid of everything. She's been in Beirut during the war. She's been in Egypt. She's been in Ukraine several times in the last year. 


I've never seen her in Ukraine in the last three months. So one thing that you can do, in addition to what that Jen Leonov suggested, that our societies do, but that takes much longer, is to take yourself home. 


I assume you want that much. Go to senate.gov. There's a drop-down menu that says, send a message to your senator, and let your senator know how you feel about what's going on. And find out when he or she is coming back to town and going to tell them face-to-face with a checkbook, they're responding to the checkbook, how you feel. 


So I know this is an international meeting, and the investment pipeline are international. Yes, but please. Take out your phone, you can do it once in an hour and let them know how you sleep. Thank you. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be back for one more time. So let's take, we still have more questions from this mic and then we can probably find our speakers afterwards if the mic turns right here. 


Good morning. Thank you so much for this panel. I really appreciate it. I'm really happy to see you right now. We have a space at the sex dentist in Los Angeles and Kansas City. So in our spaces in Kansas City, there are infant clinics that really call and ask for benefits. 


We are asking our people to write a gender comment here before they leave a quote from a text. So we're talking in our spaces about doing the pronouns off of electronic targeting. We have a lot of sexual orientation. 


How do we read the language things? And so this is really up and center and all our main things are in the buzz. I just talked about that now last September. We're talking about why they leave the cyber gender comment here. 


I don't know. What's the reason? How the e-hose is coming in. The sexual distinction on this is going to be more as a blossom by the children that have it out. So, yeah. I mean, I think talking with other, other students and other situations and other patients can access care. 


And just to show the resources for me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The last few months are, you know, surely has more than two goals. One is to have care, simple processes, and enable care. And I just hope that when we are talking about advocacy, that, I know this is still a fun topic, but I hope that that is also part of the conversation. 


Because that is very much a part of the restricted access, as well. People in our state may be prepared for this. Thank you. As you can see, everyone in the room, federal colleagues are being violated. 


There's been several attempts at the federal government over the other day. President and wife, both of them require. So, I believe that there's going to be a lot of crisis for people who are going to have to be sure that you want to and really consider reducing this for people who are not in their jobs. 


Thank you everyone for coming. Thank you all for being here. Thank you. There was no line. I had to go get it. 
