

In 1991, Lee Goldblind and Anna Tostasen, both at Harvard at the time, put out an editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine. And the editorial was entitled, Uncertainty About Post-Manipause of a Hespergen Time for Action, Not Debate. 


That was 1991. It was the lead editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine that was 34 years ago. Also in 1991, Bernadine Healy was appointed by George H. W. Bush as the first female director of the National Institutes of Health. 


And one of her first commitments was to start doing research on women. I'm sure you in this audience know that up until that point, most of the medical research was done on men. And it was done on men for a good reason, ostensibly. 


Women have a tendency to get pregnant, and you don't want to give a new drug to somebody who might be carrying an unknown fetus. OK. But they didn't do it only on male humans. They did it on male animals, too. 


Female animals weren't subjected to tests. And even cell lines were male cell lines. And Bernadine Healy, a cardiologist, said, it's time we did research on women, for women, so that we would be able to improve women's status. 


And she started and outlined the Women's Health Initiative. She wrote a book in 1995. Women's Health Initiative was really initiated around 1993. She wrote a book... published for late people, and she wrote in the book many of the major risk factors that women face as they age. 


Heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, and Alzheimer's are or may well be reduced by hormone replacement therapy. By the way, I use the term hormone replacement therapy. As you probably know, menopausal hormone therapy has gradually replaced hormone replacement therapy. 


That's political, that's not scientific. The Women's Health Initiative said we can't call it hormone replacement therapy because that sounds like women are missing something, so let's call it MHT. I don't care, whatever you're comfortable with, it's fine. 


She wrote, as a result of those data, she wrote, when she gets menopause, she plans to begin HRP without a plan. She said, as I see it, women have a competitive health and survival edge before menopause. 


I see no reason to relinquish that advantage after menopause, not if I can help it. And then, the Women's Health Initiative started. Jacques Rousseau, a cardiologist, was made the director of the Women's Health Initiative. 


I put up the pictures of these people, so if you should meet them, one of the other women, exactly what he was taught in, you talk to them, don't get aggressive. You talk to them. Got it. The Women's Health Initiative said, look, this was done as a heart study. 


We did the study because heart disease is the leading killer of women. Seven times as many women die of heart disease as die of breast cancer, and what people often say is, all people die of heart disease, young people die of breast cancer. 


If I'm gonna die, and I will die, I'd rather die when I'm old than when I'm young. And point of fact, in every decade of a woman's life, starting at age 40, her risk of dying of heart disease is greater than her risk of dying of breast cancer, and the difference increases with each successive decade. 


So there's seven times as many women in this country die of heart disease as die of breast cancer. And the Women's Health Initiative said, we're doing this study primarily for heart disease, and we walked into it, remember the article, the editorial, by Goldman and Kosterson, thinking that estrogen would really help heart disease. 


And so we were not only unbiased, we were even a little prejudiced in favor of estrogen. And that was distributed as their rationale for this study, except... Rousseau wrote in 1996, the bandwagon in support of estrogen replacement therapy is clearly rolling. 


As anyone who reads newspapers or magazines, watches television or talks to colleagues can attest, the bandwagon appears to be picking up speed and volume. The benefits of HRT are being trumpeted to post-men and women with only transient muting for reports of possible adverse effects. 


It is time to put brakes on that bandwagon. The director of the WHI wrote those words six years before the WHI came out with their first report and in fact, put brakes on this bandwagon. And as you heard from Tammy, A report that came out in July 8, 2002, which was eight days before it appeared as the lead article in JAMA was heralded by a press conference at which Rousseau said, we regret to inform you that it increases, 


hormones increase the risk of heart disease, stroke, breast cancer, cognitive decline, and premature death. Gina Colada wrote that out for the New York Times. And the percentage of eligible women in this country who were taking hormone replacement therapy fell from, depending on if you read, 44% or 26%, I'm not sure which is legitimate, to less than 5% where it remains today. 


And six months later, as you heard from Dr. Rowan, the FDA put warnings on all estrogen labels. And so, let's look at the WHI's breast cancer claims. First, there is no increased risk with estrogen alone. 


The 26% increase that they reported with the combination of estrogen and progestin was not statistically significant. It amounts to one additional nonfatal breast cancer patient for 1,000 women on the HRT. 


Let me just mention, when I say no increased risk with estrogen alone, that was in the initial report in 2002. They had never shown an increase with estrogen alone. And in fact, they now report a decreased risk of breast cancer of 23% on estrogen alone with a decreased breast cancer mortality of 40%. 


I see people here nodding. I'm sure some of you could get up and give this talk. Except, what they say in the article is, the difference with the combination of espergen and progestin almost reached nominal statistical significance. 


You hear that, and what most doctors that I know do, when they hear the word statistics, they look like they understand what they're hearing, but they know what they're praying for. And you put the word nominally, what the hell is nominal? 


What does that really mean? What it really means is that this didn't satisfy the mathematical criteria for statistical significance. I've been reading medical articles for over 50 years. I have never seen that sentence in any other article, ever. 


almost reached nominal statistical significance. When you play basketball, if you sink the ball through the basket, it's two points. If the ball bounces off the rim and doesn't go through the basket, it's zero. 


Almost reached nominal statistical significance. But they then had the arrogance to say that WHI is the first randomized controlled trial to confirm that combined estrogen plus progestin does increase the risk of incident breast cancer. 


That's not true. Where is the integrity of the authors and the reviewers who accepted that article and put it as the lead article in GEMMA? That's Rowan Shilbatsky. Rowan is the leading oncologist on the WHI panel, and I invited Rowan to give a talk at my local hospital in Los Angeles in 2005. 


This is now three years after that first report. And the doctor raised his hand. He was an ENT doctor, and he said after the talk, I'm just an ENT doctor, so this may be a doctor question. He didn't say, but I have a PhD in math, which he didn't. 


But it seems to me that the data you just presented to us, the data on the basis of which there was that precipitous drop of HRT around the world, is not significant. Why am I missing? And Rowan, He responded, and this is a direct quote if you want to read it, you can't. 


I won't, but what it really means is if we think we found something and the numbers don't add up, the statistical police have to leave the room. Yeah, if you're Matthew Fellow, then you're listening. 


That is just as bad as saying almost reached nominal statistical standards, what are you doing? Are you really providing guidelines, or are you promoting fear? And I think the answer to that question is unfortunately very clear. 


In 2006, that's Garnet Anderson. Garnet Anderson is a professor of biophatistics at the University of Washington. And she is the official biostatistician for the Women's Health Commission. And she did a study, she recorded in 2006. 


She said, look, I know, we know, that this was a study done for heart disease to see whether or not hormones either improve heart illnesses or cause heart disease among patients at risk for heart disease. 


And the risk factors for heart disease are different than the risk factors for breast cancer. And although we did say that it increases the risk of breast cancer, estrogen is now off the table because they never said that about estrogen, nevermind the black box warning, but they did say it about the combination of estrogen and progesterone. 


She said, so what I did is I went back and I reanalyzed the data and adjusted for breast cancer risk factors to see whether or not that would make a difference. And these are the risk factors she looked for. 


And she said, and this did not substantially alter this estimate. Really? It did. If you look at the day-to-day originally published, and this was their 2003 paper, where they said that the combination increases the risk of breast cancer, they had a hazard ratio of 1.24, and a confidence interval, and just for those of you who don't know, a confidence interval should not include the number one. 


If it does, it means this was not statistically significant. And the confidence interval was 1.02 to 1.50, but after she did the adjustment, the confidence interval fell to 0.94. and 1.53. That means it's not statistically significant. 


How dare she say it did not substantially alter this estimate? It did. What's more, in 2003, Garnett and Anderson, pleasure, said that estrogen increases the risk of ovarian cancer. The increase went from 0.4 per thousand people compared to 0.2 for those who got placebo. 


You have to know, with statistics, the people who really care about science will say, and this includes Richard Dahl, who was the Regis Professor of Physic at Oxford, and Marcia Angel, who was the first editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine, They say that the lower limit of the confidence interval should be three or four, not 0.1. 


But even if you say 0.1, you have to follow your own guidelines. And the WHO has not done that. So she's talking about a very low risk of ovarian cancer. But in fact, she said, this suggests that an increased risk of ovarian cancer incidence and mortality remains worrisome. 


Really? Wait, wait, wait. Your numbers don't say that. Why are you saying that? And so Wolf Udean, who was the president of the North American Menopause Society, wrote a letter to the editor and said, your numbers are significant. 


And she wrote, responded in response to Dr. Udean, we acknowledge that the estimated effects of estrogen plus progestin, and this is estrogen plus progestin, estrogen alone didn't do anything, on ovarian cancer did not reach statistical significance. 


The fact that these data arose from the only randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial of sufficient size and duration to examine effects on this rare biologic cancer makes them a unique, although still not definite, contribution to the literature. 


Are you listening to this? This is disgraceful. And it is these people and this data that are affecting all of our patients. Lest you think it's left alone and ovarian cancer, I'm here to tell you a story. 


talk about president, but Rowan, who you met several slides back, said in 2024 that HRT increases the risk of ovarian cancer. Well, for patients on placebo, the incident was more profound. For patients on estrogen alone, it was seven per thousand. 


Remember, this is based upon risk factors for heart disease, four per thousand, seven per thousand, and this is estrogen alone. For estrogen plus progestin, it was eight per thousand versus nine per thousand. 


These are nothing numbers. But he wrote, this increases the risk of ovarian cancer, and he wrote that this past year. But we know that the only preventive measures are ovarian cancer are oral contraceptives. 


And they increase the risk by up to 4% per year or 20% for five years. This makes no sense, never mind that the numbers are hardly impressive. And also, this was done with retrospective substragification, which means he's got all these data, and he looks at them to see what he can pull out of it. 


And he could look for owners of a red-shary chimera and find, guess what? Well, but he doesn't say that. He says it does increase the risk. And here, it's estrogen only that increased the risk, never mind that this doesn't mean anything. 


Estrogener projects didn't. Remember, in 2003, the WHO published that it was only estrogen in the progester that increased the risk and estrogen alone didn't. And yet, every time one of these reports comes out, the New York Times headlines it, usually written by Gina Colada, and everybody starts shaking. 


HRT and lung cancer. In 2009, Rowan Chlevowski, who you now know reasonably well, wrote that although hormones don't increase the incidence of lung cancer, they increase the incidence of lung cancer death. 


Really? No, not really, but that's what you wrote. But we know that whatever data there are suggests that hormones decrease the risk of lung cancer deaths. And I cite the reports here in case you're interested. 


So, the risk of cancer, ovarian, lung, and we'll talk about breast cancer in a little more detail, are grossly over lung. and we just have to review quickly and this will be fast because you all know the good parts of hormones but what is being left out here is how much good these drugs do. 


Symptoms of menopause. I walked through the corridor here before entering any boy. You have anything you want to treat the symptoms of menopause but clearly the best treatment is hormone replacement therapy. 


It's basically estrogen. And the symptoms aren't just hot flashes and night sweats. You know that insomnia, joint pain, swelling of the hands and feet, palpitations. Many cardiologists I know and respect still don't recognize that palpitations are a known side effect of menopause. 


I haven't even put cavities down here but a brain fog. thinning hair, bloating, weight gain around the abdomen, and congenital urinary syndrome you've already heard about. The median duration is 7.4 years, longer in women of color, and estrogen will decrease the frequency in severity symptoms by 895%, and no other treatment comes close. 


I didn't see an ad for Viosa at an importer. Viosa increases the sexual satisfaction of increases a woman's orgasm by one per month. Well, I don't know about go-sex lives, but one per month just seems to be, not to be worse, talking about. 


And the side effect of Viosa, which is given for sweats, is sweats, how much is that? Right. In 2003, when we found the machine of Z, then H.I.G. did not have a lot of the more business and unhealthily involved in the last one. 


And they did work on climate earth. So, yeah. But today, they found that it's the most effective independent medical syndrome, that it increases the frequency of things we've known now for 20 years, and they recommended this first one therapy. 


And I added Joanne Edmondson, who is now the leading spokesperson for the W.H.I. She's an internist, cardiologist, a follower, together with Rowan Schuberti, Garnett Edmondson, and Chakra Sepp. If you see any of them in the elevator, are you polite? 


Heart disease. You already know. Heart disease. according to the Women's Health Initiative, a poll was resulted in a 29% increase for the same coronary heart disease that was in 2002. In 2021, they said, if you started within 10 years there were less than a second period, you get a 32% reduction. 


And in a cognitive review that they quoted, 19 trials said, oh, by the way, estrogen decrease was heart disease and heart disease dead. Osteoporotic hip fracture, we don't have to talk about except to say that almost as many women died each year within one year of a hip fracture has died of breast cancer. 


It's about 41,000 for breast cancer and about 32,000 for osteoporotic hip fracture. And they recognize and always recognize that estrogen decreases the incidence of osteoporotic hip fracture. by 50%. 


Cognitive decline. Cognitive decline in 2004, they said it nearly doubles the risk from 1% to 1.8%. Come on. 1% to 1.8% and do we have a definitive diagnostic study for it? Right. But now they recognize that cognitive decline at the time they reported it was seen only among people who were already cognitively impaired. 


And when women who had mild cognitive decline, when we removed those women from the study, they found that actually it decreased the risk of cognitive decline. And women who took four months before joining the study had a 50% reduced risk of Alzheimer's compared to 90. 


Longevity, they said it causes premature death in 2002. In 2012 they said women randomized for hormones are less likely to die from all causes after a breast cancer diagnosis than women on placebo. And Roger Lobo quoted a 40% reduction in overall mortality rate for women on HRT. 


Roger is at Columbia. So does estrogen cause breast cancer? Well, if it did, breast cancer should increase during your premenopausal years and should decrease once you reach menopause if you're not taking it. 


But in point of fact, the second most important criteria for breast cancer is age after gender. And so this graph does not suggest that estrogen causes breast cancer. In addition, a full term pregnancy before age trending. 


And that's not I won't be recommending, but you're going to know. But this is the lifetime risk, cancer risk by 70%. And so everybody who tells you, well, it's really lifetime exposure to estrogen, that's garbage. 


That's nonsense. That's based on four incomplete studies that are very unimpressive. And if you look at women who are taking hormones at the time they're diagnosed with breast cancer, that doesn't worsen their prognosis. 


If you are bored and are responsible for recommending abortion to newly diagnosed women with breast cancer, many, many years ago, because of my concern that the fetus and the body's production of hormones would accentuate the breast cancer. 


And I was wrong. It's not valid, and in fact, abortion might worsen the prognosis, and we'll talk about hormones after breast cancer, but it's not bad, and they'll see more. So in the long-term follow-up of two randomized trials, this is what the Women's Health Initiative published within the past several years, prior randomized use of estrogen alone, compared with placebo, among women who had a previous hysterectomy, 


was associated with a 23% lower risk of breast cancer, and a 40% lower risk of death from breast cancer. And so, whom can you trust? I'm a convincing speaker, I know that. I spoke, I'm very familiar with the subject, but so is Joanne Manson, and so are the members of the WHI, which is why I show data, don't be swayed by the speaker. 


Let's pay attention to the data. Effective treatment of menopausal symptoms, we now agree. Reduce the risk of heart disease, we now agree. Reduce the risk of hip fracture, osteoporosis, we agree. Reduce the risk of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's, we agree. 


Prolong health span and life span, we agree. Estrogen alone does not increase the risk of breast cancer. We agree, they said it reduces the risk of breast cancer, for instance, and breast cancer death. 


So the one thing with this WHI on is the combination of estrogen and progesterone. But they're misrepresenting their own data. I used to say they're misinterpreting their own data. That's too innocent. 


They know they're misrepresenting their own data. I don't know why, but they are. I've debated Rowan Schlebowski on radio broadcasts. I've debated him in public. I am in communication with Joanne Manson. 


I published extensively, either alone or with colleagues in response to articles that they publish. They know everything I'm telling you now, and they're not changing. We published an article to Tiz but a Scratch in 2022, it's an interesting story about the title, but I'm not gonna mention that right now. 


And what we said in the article is, according to the WHO, women who started HRT within several years of reaching menopause, which is the overwhelming majority of treated women had no interest with still breast cancer, even with the nomination, and they know that. 


So, the... hazard ratio, and this is the substance of their data. If you look at their initial article and then their article that Garnet Anderson published in 2006, estrogen alone did not increase the risk of breast cancer, but they said that estrogen and progestin, they used the drugs and progesterone acetate, they said the combination did increase the risk. 


First they said it was almost significant, then they said it was significant. It was never significant. The reason they saw that increased risk, and I'll show you the graph, this is their increased risk. 


And you see on top, the blue line is the combination and red is the placebo group. That does look like an increased risk, but that's the same graph on top as the graph of estrogen, which they said did not increase the risk at the time. 


The problem isn't that they saw an increased risk, their placebo group had an unexpected decreased risk. I love that there are people in the audience who are giving this talk to me as I am giving it to you. 


Which is my suggestion. And the question is why should the placebo group have a lower risk of breast cancer? Well, about 20% of them had taken hormones before being randomized to placebo. If you remove the women who took hormones from both arms and you regret it, the placebo group risk goes up and the difference disappears, they know that. 


All right, so let's talk in the next five minutes about breast cancer clearly took an area in the coal mine. breast cancer survivors, especially breast cancer survivors with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. 


I reviewed 26 studies of breast cancer survivors. Those are all the studies I could find in the medical literature in English or French. And of the 26 studies, only one showed an increased risk of recurrence, and it was only local pro-country lateral recurrence. 


25 studies did not. Four of the five prospectively randomized trials reported no increase. That one study was one of the prospectively randomized trials. Four of the five known increase. Five reported fewer breast cancer events. 


Four reported reduced mortality from breast cancer associated with HRD administration. So there's only one study. So that one study is both a habit study. And this is an acronym for hormones after breast cancer, is it safe? 


It was done by Lars Holmgren at Sweden. And what they found is that women who were given hormones had an increase risk of local or contralateral tumor, no increase of distant disease, no increase of risk of death, and that helped in the duration of the study. 


So let's look at that study. That's Lars Holmgren. And he's a good fellow most of the time. They terminated the study prematurely in 2003 after only two years of meeting and follow-up, and after only 434 of the first 1,300 study patients had been enrolled. 


They terminated it because they did see the increased risk of local reparants. The, I mentioned it's only local. There was no increase in the development of distant metastasis of death. There was no increase among women with lymph node metastasis, who you think would be a greatest risk of reparants. 


And there was no increase, interestingly, when Cremorant was the mode of estrogen use. There was no baseline rest imaging, mandate for women entering the study. Really? When you're looking at breast cancer survivors, by the way, you only found local or contralateral tumor, and you didn't insist on baseline imaging, that study shouldn't be based anywhere. 


I've been writing back and forth with Dr. Holmgren now for 15 years. four years. And he said to me, I said, you might have published in 2008, isn't it time for an update? And he said, I'm no longer in this field. 


prostate cancer. I said, I'll help you write the article. I wrote the data, and he agreed to have some of his postdocs look at the data. And that was two and a half years ago. He did write, we agree that the results of a single randomized study should be interpreted cautiously. 


Especially when the study is terminated early, good for him. He said we stopped only because we saw the increased risk of local recurrence. Okay, but he didn't mean to say the last word. In the editorial of company, the habits report Rowan Shlodowski wrote the editorial and he wrote the habit study may arguably not be the definitive word on the use of hormones in women with breast cancer but it will probably be the last word when considered in context of our evolving understanding of the effects of hormone therapy on chronic disease in women. 


Really Rowan? It's on the basis of 22 patients. The difference between 39 and 17 and the habit study that millions of women are being denied hormone therapy after breast cancer. 22 patients. That's all. 


That is disgraceful. And when women, and I don't have to tell this audience, go in and ask their doctor about hormones, they're told if you want to talk about that they'll have to find another doctor. 


Shame on them. The last thing is Anne Partridge. Anne Partridge, Inter-Corrupted Tomacifin Therapy, on hospital receptor-positive women who wanted to get pregnant and what she found after eight years of follow-up on women who got pregnant, some of whom had multiple births, there was no increased risk of recurrence. 


This is the next to last slide. I wrote to Joanne Manson and she answered me back, she said, in several of our writing, we talk about the low absolute risk of breast cancer, especially in the younger women, and how breast cancer is only a small part of the decision making process. 


So I think we agree on this issue. Are you under the impression that I think the small increased risk of breast cancer, which I don't acknowledge, precludes use of menopausal hormone therapy. In particular, if a woman has moderate to severe basal motor symptoms, and is in early menopause and generally healthy, I've often made the case that the benefits of MHD would be expected to outweigh the risks. 


This is in a private email to me. She has published this in the medical literature as well. So finally, is the black box wanted for estrogen still justified? Thank you. Thank you. 
