

Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, members and guests of Ishwish. I'm Dr. Jim Simon. I'm your poster for this across the session. First, a couple of announcements. Please turn off your cell phones or set them to silent. 


We're praying for taking filming or taking pictures during the session. And if you have questions during the session, you can ask them during the Q&A session, which we hope will be lively. And afterward, I'm sure our two distinguished speakers, as well as you two in the moment, will be willing to repeat with you in the answers to our individual questions. 


So many of you know me. I'm your moderator. And my name is Jim Simon. I'm a clinical professor at George Washington. But after a poem of this session, which, if you're wondering if you're in the right place, is called, Is the Black Box Warning on Astronomy Taking Products Still Justified? 


And what is this doing for cancer survivors? If this is not where you're supposed to be, go back. But if it is where you're supposed to be, then my reason for being at the podium is, for one reason and one reason only, I was the president of the North American Medical Society when the hormone therapy arm of the WHI came out. 


So if you think I was on the hot seat now, you should have been there. Our two distinguished speakers, first well-known to most of you. Dr. Tammy Rowan who is an associate professor at UCSF, a long-standing member of Ishwish and currently secretary of the organization and historically in charge of the education committee and the courses. 


We have a lot to thank Tammy for. And our guest, Dr. Avram Malooning, in his first career, a medical oncologist. I don't think we've had very many medical oncologists. But a medical oncologist and more recently the co-author of a best-selling book called Estrogen Matchers. 


Now in his second career, with his co-author, the brilliant Carol Tabers. These are our two proponents today. And without further ado, I'll bring Dr. Rowan to the microphone. And thank you all for being here. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You also have amazing friends on the mic. Thanks, everybody. This is a good time. So we're getting our slides loaded to put in a plug for our following course that's starting. 


I'm with the Association Committee, headed by Sarah Stigna. It's going to be starting at the end of April. This is like the warm-up. You're interested in warm-ups. You're going to get seven full hours and seven sessions, where all of this information will be covered, but not in the most exciting way. 


And our room is here, especially for us today. So I'm going to do the really easy part of the black box morning, and I'm really going to open it up by talking about joining our nervous syndrome in our class. 


These are my disclosures. We're going to talk a little bit about the scope of the problem, some of the treatment options that we're familiar with for GSM, and then really talk about where this black box morning and estrogen concerns may come from and what they really have. 


So in terms of how common is GSM, there's lots of studies. I can show you all the different studies that have been done. But in general, we think it's over 50% of the general population. The most common symptom in menopause is hot flashes. 


But GSM is up there, and the symptoms are far worse in cancer patients, so upwards of three quarters. GSM is going to be related to how old our patients are, what their menopausal status is. So then if they have a natural versus surgical, what types of treatments they have, we're all familiar with this. 


Are they on a selective estrogen receptor modulator? Are they on aromatase inhibitor? Huge difference between how severe those symptoms get and how sexually active our patients are. This is a busy slide. 


But essentially, you can see that there are many options for treating GSM. I would say in the kind of mainstream, especially in the cancer community, they only focus on these top three. Moisturizers, and suppositories, which are essentially oil and moisturizers, and lidocaine, which has been shown in a randomized controlled trial to be beneficial for just pruning it. 


But as we know, for GSM, the general urinary syndrome of menopause, there really is only one treatment that can actually reverse and help restore vaginal health. And those are vaginal estrogens, or vaginal hormones, including antigens. 


And then there are the other ones in here, basically. Practarone, we'll talk about, is DHEA. It's a, we learned about it with Dr. Newsy yesterday. It is proformin. It converts into a viral testosterone in the tissue. 


Why is any of this controversial? Well, we all know that that is a 2000. There is a warning place on all estrogen weight systems. was in the aftermath of the WHI, after we got Jim Simons, I'm hired as that. 


I don't know if it was, I think I was in medical school. Um, so, this made it up to the New York Times, right? We knew after the, in the aftermath of the WHI, the FDA came out and said every product that has estrogen has to have a black box warning link. 


We hear this all the time, and I think what's important is what does that actually mean? It means when our patients open up any products that contains estradiol, this is what they see. Using estrogen alone may increase your chance of getting cancer of the uterus. 


We know that that is actually, when I say what is the biggest risk of estrogen, it does cause a cancer, uterine cancer, if it is unopposed, right? But they also talk about using estrogen alone may increase your chances of stroke, blood clots, getting dementia, um, if you don't use it with progesterone, heart disease, heart attack, strokes, dementia, may increase your chance of getting a heart attack, 


may increase your chance of getting dementia, breast cancer. This is what they see, and we know this because our patients come to us and say, why didn't you give me a product that causes all of these things that you didn't tell me? 


And it's because we know it's just not true. Now, one thing that's important is that the, when we're giving local hormone, we're talking in this talk about cancer, is that it is important to think about how estrogen is absorbed, right? 


I can get into the fact that you will learn that systemic estrogen actually raises into a huge risk. That said, for our patients, it's important to understand that the local vaginal products, an entire year's worth of those products is equivalent to less than one week of a systemic product. 


They are so low dose, and I think that that's really critical. Estrogen is systemic. is actually probably not that risky, but for these products, this is why the black box morning is a little bit of an additional of serving. 


So one thing to know when you're prescribing is that the absorption really varies. There is different levels of potency, and I just want to give a little bit of background on it. So contugated equine estrogen, that's our primerin, is a little bit more potent, as we'll put it with an esperidiol, estrone, and esteriol. 


That is how far do they target the estrogen receptor? There is no estriol receptor. Everybody comes and says, estriol is safer. It's not safer, it's weaker. It's not as potent after the receptor. There are two esperidiol receptors, a an alpha and a beta, and the level of targeting is going to differ based on what they're using. 


Creams absorb at a higher rate. This is typically why we'll say for hormone-sensitive cancers, we usually avoid creams high up in the vagina, because higher in the vagina is more in solution. But the vulva is less vascular and that's where a boost of our pain is. 


What I think is so interesting is that craft stroke doesn't have a black box warning and it is a fabulous product and they will promote themselves as no black box warning. That doesn't mean it doesn't do the exact same thing as all these other products. 


So the answer is not that this drug should have a black box warning, it's that none of the drugs should have a black box warning. In theory, I'm just going to give you that there actually are studies looking at not just cancer, but let's talk about cardiovascular mortality, vaginal estrogen and COVID disease risk. 


In large studies, this has been shown to not, there's no risk here. One of the things that we're going to talk about a lot today is this cancer question, right? And so I think it's really interesting, you know, my oncologists and my institution are comfortable with us using vaginal estrogen. 


This is more worry than you need to say, than you need to read, but if you look into the fine print and I put it in here, that the ASCO guidelines, right? The oncology guidelines in the US still say that there is a risk to vaginal estrogen and that should be used with caution. 


And I think that this is really concerning and it's very harmful to our patients. We see this all the time. And CN guidelines, there's also this question in caution. And so, and this is another article I put, vaginal estrogen dial appears to be contraindicated and post-menopausal within our aromatase inhibitors. 


And that's really where they're getting their most concern is the AIs and these products, which is going to be sad because we know that the symptoms are the worst on AIs. So this is still out there. And now we know, we've had data for years showing that there is not really that much of an increase of risk of systemic absorption long-term from any of these products. 


But that was our surrogate marker. Did we have proof that it doesn't actually cause a recurrism? breast cancer, now we do. So there actually was a very large study, 50,000 people with breast cancer, and there was no evidence of an increase of early breast cancer mortality with the use of vaginal estrogen therapy compared to that. 


So that's a large study that just came out last year, actually two years ago, and then we actually have now the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology just published a systematic review and meta-analysis. 


Thousands and thousands of patients, 24,000 patients we looked at. Vaginal estrogen with a history of breast cancer does not appear to be associated with increased recurrence, specific mortality, or overall mortality. 


So it's not just that we have a surrogate marker, we have the actual outcome we care about. We can be done with this. So where are we now? This is the unboxing menopause. So there are people in this room, I always love to, you know, Give a little cross to Rachel Rubin. 


She's going out there. She's in the back. I love she is doing the, she's doing the top work out. Oh my god. That's awesome. Thank you so much. I'm so grateful to be done with this. And now we're doing a big movement. 


At this wish, part of our advocacy committee went to the FDA years ago, a few years ago, to ask, man, the medical society has done this. But people are going to the FDA and they're responsible for this estrogen. 


And you know, it's still estrogen. That's not the answer. The answer is we're done with this. We can prove it to you over and over again. It's more than just breast cancer, as I talked about. But since breast cancer really is the number one here, that's why it's so wonderful to have an oncologist here who specializes in breast cancer and who can maybe give us their take and a little bit more background. 


So thank you, Dr. Grumia. I'd love you to come up and take over from here. Thank you for your time. We'll good morning. 
