

So it's who you are, what do you do, and your question? Hi, my name is Dean, Women's Health Research Practitioner with San Diego Sexual Medicine. Thank you both for the talk. So what is your criteria for starting breast cancer survivors about a non-systemic or length-based or particular period of time? 


Are there any contributions that would prevent you from using any of those systemic problems? One of the things I try to be very careful about is giving specific advice to a patient I don't know. You are all clinicians. 


We evaluate patients, we look at benefit and risk, and we involve the patient in the decision. Eric Weidner is the recent past president of the American Society of Clinical Onology. Eric was the head of a president at Harvard at Mass General, he's the head of cancer research at Yale. 


Eric was born with hemophilia A, he got AIDS as a result of a transfusion, a fact of A when he was a young man. He knows about dealing with doctors who don't know what they should know. Eric gave his last address as the president of Mass General and it was entitled Partnering with Patients. 


And that's a manual that we all have to do with it. I'm avoiding giving you a specific answer, I'm giving you risk factors, I'm giving you benefits, and you and your patients have to work that out. I'll add to that, I think one of the things I like to do when I'm starting an on-home therapy or when we're having these discussions is, I say this, the data suggests, I tell them what the data shows, and I say that does not mean you won't get breast cancer. 


It doesn't mean you won't get a recurrence. Conversation will happen, this medication is related to that. And if it happened, how do we feel about the decisions the conversations we're having today, and only the leadership knows themselves while we're talking about that? 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would make one additional comment to Tammy's comment, and actually to Avram's comment. If we ask the question, should more women than fewer women be candidates for hormones than they are now the answer is yes. 


And that means that there's time and a place, or as Tammy said, interpretation. Yes, ma'am. Thank you very much. Very broad. You've been very broad. I'm a dermatologist, and I've been just over the years. 


What is she? That's why I'm here. I also happen to be a survivor of ovarian and breast cancer without the genes. I'm not the three years from the survival rate of five years when you're eight years. But when you're one of the seven women with extra chance of ovarian cancer, and it happens to you, it's a hundred percent, I am not debating that many, many benefits from estrogen. 


And it is a five question, and I'm not taking one side or the other. But on an individual basis, not any right, statistics can lie either way. And you ask what is the motivation for those very much against you? 


I don't have one other than the safety of patients and concern that someone may get cancer on your watch. I also ask what is the motivation for those who are very, very pro-estrogen for many, many women. 


And I think that is an open question. Again, estrogen has many benefits, and it sucks to get older and lose your hormones. I've had those effects. But I also know that if you look at women and you see that women did get recurrences, were those recurrences changing in their markers? 


Did they become triple negative? We also know that it takes decades to do recurrence for breast cancer. How long could you study what you do in your life? So I just think that you think of individualists, and again, I'm not complaining. 


Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, we really have to have enough of a meeting to discuss what we are doing. You know, it's very easy and tempting to say living gets breast cancer a hundred times more frequently than men do. 


Certainly it's estrogen. Tamosafin is not an estrogen blocker. Tamosafin was originally heralded as an estrogen blocker, and it does combine with the estrogen receptor, but not as avidly as estrogen. 


In fact, When women get tomazovit, they're circulating estrogen levels through menopause, and women can go up five-fold. And great Jordan, who developed tomazovit, said, if a woman becomes resistant to tomazovit, often given her low-dose estrogen, can launch her into the tumor. 


The tumor seems to adapt to its environment. And one of the things we use on us to try to do is change the environment in which the tumor will tell her. That means stopping estrogen. It can mean trying to get her low-dose estrogen. 


It can mean giving bad estrogen, although we don't do that now. But great Jordan, because that's the only term yesterday. I've been an oncologist for over 50 years, and I don't know what breast cancer is. 


I don't know what course. I know the majority. In between 90 and 97% of any of us, they get started. But I don't know what it is, and I challenge anybody to tell me they know about it. It's just not a false modesty on my part. 


It's terrible. Hi, I'm Thomas Eil. I'm from Shenandoah, Florida. I'm an underserved baby. Eight years ago, I stopped practicing OB and new gynecology. Eight years ago, I was a psychologist with CTV breast cancer at New York work. 


So I'm the other asset. So I want to say thank you for you. I appreciate your talk. My life has been broken since then, and it's not changing, but not the doctors in my area. So, my question to you is, what do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? 


What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? 


What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? 


What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? 


What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? What do you recommend with testosterone and breast cancer survivors? I'm not a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. 


Often I have been proven in their own opinions. They did very well. I don't use testosterone. I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. 


I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. 


I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. I don't think I'm a woman, but I've been living with all of the places that I've been at. I'm sorry we haven't cut it off. 


I'm sure our speakers will be happy to answer questions. I'll leave you with one final question. 
