

So, we're going to continue the construct of education and supporting our sponsors. This is called the Innovative Showcase Breakfast Witness. I'm going to start at the 7.30 bus and my co-conspirator today is Dr. 


Jason Rubin. And we're going to discuss some technology related to innovation in women's sexual health. Non-invasive, an LISWV. LISWV, you've ever heard of the acronym. LISWV is one or two people. So, okay. 


So, L stands for low, L-O-W. LISWV, I for intensity. And then shockwave therapy is the definition. So, does anyone here ever have a kidney cell? Yes. Is that a shockwave? Anyone have a shockwave treatment for these? 


So, the old days went back in the 80s that there was a company, Dornier, that made shockwaves in water mats. And the idea of the water mat perpetuates today. Now, what we learned today is that today's new version of low intensity shockwave is actually a water mat based on that principle. 


And Dr. Rubin is a neurologist and a specialist, assistant clinical professor, department of neurology, Georgetown University, and the former robust Washington, D.C. city. And the fourth member of this switch. 


And the not large disclaimer of women and female. And the anatomy is not what everyone might ever possibly do. So, we're going to sort of do this relatively. quickly. We're going to focus on the use of one section of it, but you're going to be approached by multiple different devices and machines and companies about chocolate therapy. 


I think the more you learn of what is chocolate therapy, the more you feel comfortable with it. This specific device is an amazing version of genuine chocolate therapy. You'll realize that there are sham versions of chocolate therapy. 


I'm going to try to explain the difference. Before I do that, John is in the back of the way of his head. Everybody turn around and stare at John. John Warlick, his work with the original Dornier company when he was four years old, now that he's a little bit older, he basically owns the company that has converted the water path into a portable water path. 


I just don't know everything about him. Do you know the location of where I actually met John Warlick? In this exact building, down in the hall in 2019, this wish had a goodbye, this wish was submitted, and John was demonstrating there, and we met. 


And within a month, he came to San Diego, and within a month, we were doing clinical trials using chocolate therapy, and I just can't thank him enough for everything about it. And I didn't remember my name tag today, but my name tag says sexual medicine on the bottom, and I'm very proud of that, and sexual medicine is that subspecialty that focuses on study diagnosis and treatment of people with sexual health concerns. 


I'm going to share with you a short way of saying that. We've done several thousand treatments over the years since I've had John and his device. We have both men and women in our facility, and in our facility, we do men more often than women, and that brings me to our co-conspirator. 


I want you to tell us, you do men and women, too. What is your relationship in terms of men and whether that is useful? So we certainly have a lot more data, robust data, for male sexual dysfunction, for erectile dysfunction, for pelvic pain as well. 


And so it's easier. So the men, I say it's the reverse pain tax because the men helped to fuel the work that we do with women, because I don't have as much research for women, so I don't treat the charges the same for my female patients. 


And so it's actually, I say the men subsidize the female research that we're doing. So I would say we try to do 80% of our male patients, but we do hide it in our toolbox for our female patients. I would say it's not my first line. 


I'm going to say this is the only thing we need, but we use it both for diagnostic purposes as well as therapeutic purchases, and we've seen some really remarkable results. Okay, excellent. So this is the Shave good advice. 


So he joins the gold sponsor for his wish, and he really uses weight up front. So if you unscrew all the component parts, I don't know if he has an unscrewed device for people to see, but it's a silver shiny device that is shaped like the headlight in a car with a parabolic reflector. 


So there's a spark component that generates a forward flow wave, and then there is a reflected version wave that follows. So every shock that you get with John's soft wave device, you get two shocks, a forward flow and a reflected flow. 


So it's a double hit for every time you do it. So I'm just going to show this to you. So this is itself, you'll see the word primary and reflected, and it's kind of a hybrid version device that's kind of inside itself. 


So this is the shockwave generator and this is the first wave that comes through. As this advances, you can start to see the reflected wave come fall. So for every shockwave, you get two shockwaves. So it's counted as one, but the genuine is two. 


And now that forward flow. So the next one we'll shoot the video. So here's the, this is the aiming part. So you see the first wave and the second wave. You can watch that again. You see the first wave. 


There is the first wave followed by the question wave. That's a very important component part because no other device has two waves for the short and long wave. And I work with an engineer in Germany and you can show the calculations that there's a wave and then there's a wave and a second wave. 


Not only do you see it, but you can actually calculate it. So the original original original stone machine, you have to be in a water bath for the energy. And this thing has a water bath. But you look deeply inside that device. 


It's all water. And this is the pump that keeps it in water. So does anyone know science when you have energy coming out of the air versus energy coming out in water? In which location is the energy passing faster in water? 


Life comes faster in water. So when the energy comes up and has to be greater than the speed of sound, it could be a shock wave. That's its definition. You have five times greater speed coming out of this device. 


So if it's 767 miles per hour versus the speed of sound, you have over 3000 miles an hour coming out of this device. I'm explaining to you. This is just a genuinely amazing piece of equipment. So this is the shock wave generator. 


So in our office, we have headsets that are noise reduction things. And so that if we do a lot of math, we can do that. You don't get my records in the patient. You don't get my any patient. That's the sound that you get. 


Remember, each wave is two waves. You get a forward fill and a reflected fill. Now, this is my favorite thing. If you click, if that's the loudest, that is please bell. He has a cardiac surgeon from Austria. 


And I'm listening to his lecture. If you can look, there's a beeping heart there. So he's an astronaut within the lecture on shock waving the beeping heart. He's a cardiac surgeon. And he shocks it during the surgery. 


Sounds weird. Has anyone ever heard of this? Beeping heart. Okay. Then he publishes, just this year, in the European Heart Journal, how a cardiac shock wave, shock wave through the heart, makes the cardiac muscle more functional. 


so that the left ventricular ejection fraction, the semiquetone for arc failure, disappears if you shock the beating heart. This is the first evidence that I've ever heard of where a human being's smooth muscle function has been improved by a shocker. 


Now, you have smooth muscle in the vagina, you have smooth muscle in the clitoris, you have smooth muscle consisting of the genital tissue. You wanted a strategy and evidence that you can with your equipment improve the function of smooth muscle. 


I can't give you any more evidence than what both Philip has done, and he's really my hero. Anyways, that's what a shockwave looks like. I'm gonna make a sound, I don't know if it's got one, but it looks like that. 


It's in microsecond, but you look at the blood love, the XF, the YF, that's in microsecond. So you're getting each shockwave. It's just three or four microseconds. And the whole point is, the sham version of this, which is raining loads of pressure waves, has a generated shockwave look like, or sham look like, that has nothing to do with shockwave. 


And if you're ever gonna purchase this stuff, make sure you're getting the real shockwave equipment, because it's very confusing. It wants to be a different shockwave. Do you have any comments about it? 


Because we see in San Diego all these stupid clinics that shockwave is a light treatment for you. Yeah, it's very confusing for people, right? Because the term, everyone calls everything a shockwave. 


What is an actual shockwave? And I rely on Dr. Goldstein for my physics knowledge. But really, you know, understanding the difference between electropydrolic, electromagnetic, teleoelectric, you know, it's really challenging, because there's all these radio wave devices that are not necessarily data-driven, but they may use the data that exists for shockwave to say, look at our results, this is all the same. 


It's like the Wizard of Oz. Like, look over here in a situation so it is. It's a challenge to know, you know, you really have to hear a video of this when you're looking into these technologies. The lizard box is really, I am going to steal that. 


That is very cool. All right, so this has FDA clearance. I don't know if Sue wants to talk about this, there's a truly big on this, but the thing is when you do research, you need to have the word FDA involved in all of these. 


So this specific device is clear, or it was more like lung flu, lung flow, connective tissue activation, pain in the luration and wound healing, so. But by having that, getting through IRBs is very helpful. 


It's also NSR, called non-significant risk to humans, and again it has this unique, parabola-depressant unit, it's too sharp. So now we're going to talk about this in women's health, and this is the paper written in part by Rachel Newman, who's now going to talk about this, by Kenny Peters, his urologist in Michigan. 


He's a chair of neurology, and it's so awesome to have a chair of neurology, who's not a prostate cancer doctor, and I love Ken Peters today. Interestingly, Ken Peters right now can't be here. He's at Sootheboo, which is a different reading version to even more data on shockwave helping with both female public pain and male public pain, which is really exciting. 


The reason I am here and I exist is actually because I went to a court that Erwin Goldstein, Ken Peters, and Andrew Goldstein were teaching at us, just a little resident, and I walked up to you after and said, I'm Rachel Regan, I'll be a felon five years, and nice to meet you. 


So it was actually a dream when a couple years ago, Ken Peters brought me a go-on, which he is a visiting professor, and when he was the reason I even entered this field, he brought me and her visiting professorship. 


And we're sitting at dinner and he's talking about these really challenging cases, and this one case came up and I had shockwave in my office, and I said, wow, this woman who has clitoral priapism, and it's been going on for years, she was on the left there, her clitoris was gorged, she had intense pelvic pain, they couldn't find an underlying pathology of what was going on with her, and we think of it, 


she was sort of almost had this pelvic floor tension that was so tight, and we said, you know what, shockwave really releases the pelvic floor, we have a randomized co-control trial from Israel that shows that it releases the pelvic floor that helps with all the dinnia or pelvic pain, and I said, this could be an option. 


We immediately got him on the phone and got him a device, and the pictures, if you look all the way to the left and all the way to the right, this one was the only thing that got this woman relief of her symptoms, and it was a dinner conversation that we had, which was really lovely, and it became this publication, which is really fabulous. 


So, I'm reminding the prisoners of their internal shockwave. So, the enjoyment is... a chamber of fat. It's challenging to get a device to go into it. So this probe is too big for it, but you can't take a condom, throw in this chocolate, a lovely ultrasound gel, which will take the energy along this path, put this condom inside your vagina, attach the edge of the condom to the chocolate. 


So the energy is now going where the least resistance is, which is the ultrasound gel in the condom in the vagina. So we resolve finally the ability to do shockwave up the vagina for a GSM patient who, present life form officer, is challenged by other strategies. 


So this is a huge advance. Intra-maginal shockwave therapy for GSM. And when we pulled slowly, we would have been through the condom, and you can sort of see as the energy, this is just a photograph, the energy is within the gel. 


And as you take more and more out, you can see more and more of the energy in the gel. But an important view at next, because the probe is too big, so it's used for clearest, equilibrium, and we'll show you for all the day. 


But it really has, we need to have a population to get into the inside of the drive-in, so we figured out a way to do that. And there's a paper presentation on that situation. Why don't you go back over? 


You can say it over, thank you. First of all. You're always the fellow, by the way, you should say it yourself. So, really, it brings in blood flow, and it helps with inflammation, and it helps connect the tissue. 


We've been looking at it for a different, we're really trying to see where is it the best, we don't know about hurting our patients, and so it's really where is it best to use with our patients. And so we learned with our patients, and so really there's this kind of help at all with hormonal eating and vestibulaging in, because it's going to help bring in blood flow. 


I think it's more in the pelvic floor relaxes, and it can really help with our hypertonic pelvic floor patients. That's about exactly what your observation is. We're working with Andrew Goldstein, hopefully helping as a site on the study, to see if we can, if it's similar to the patients who benefit from pelvic floor botulinum toxin, could this be a noninvasive way, similarly to relax those pelvic floor muscles? 


So we're studying it, we're gathering data. Do you want to give anything else that we're going to add? So the other piece is, we did a very, very minimal pilot study on stress incontinence, which is fascinating. 


So there's some rat models. This is, again, there's randomized, let's say, no control trials on pain. And so we're just trying to repeat these trials and really understand. You know, one thing we, the crazy thing about, I find it so magical for diagnostic purposes. 


So I think she'd come in and she said, Dr. Rubin, I have an embedded UTI. My bladder is full of bacteria. I know the culture is negative, but there's bacteria everywhere within the line walls of my bladder. 


And I did the whole story. Like, I have a history of physical. I look for imaging. I see you have a giant cyst in here. But we're fine. You have a terrible cyst. And I don't think you have an embedded UTI. 


I think you have a spinal pathology here. It's a nice try. I have an embedded UTI. So I took this shockwave. And I put it in my chest. I put it in my chest. I put it in my chest. I put it in my chest. 


on her pelvic floor, and she doesn't feel it anywhere but her pelvic floor, and I put it over her bladder, and she doesn't feel anything over her bladder, and I put it over the area of her cyst and her spine, and she goes, oh yeah, that's my UTI. 


I feel my UTI, because we're gonna get hit the spot, and I said, yeah, because it's not an embedded UTI. Similar, I have a guy, I have a veteran who jumped out of airplanes and had a really messed up spine and limb, and I could be scarred about this big, and he calls me and he says, I'm sure gonna have a testicle infection, and I said, you don't have a testicle infection, and I'll be right here on the side of a testicle infection. 


Testicles are totally normal, we didn't have a testicle infection. I put the shockwave machine at the top of his limb that had to be scarred, and I said, Dr. Rubin, that's my back pain, like that feels like my horrible back pain, my debilitating back pain I have every day. 


I put it to the bottom of his scar, and he said, it's like you're taking a baseball bat to my testicles right now. Like, this is my testicle pain, this is my infection. He said, good, so much of your infection. 


Go back to your spine, you know, so I use it diagonastically, I don't know what you do as well, to see some of that referred pain, and what's so cool about the machine is sometimes, again, if you get the right trigger point, it can release the pain and it can feel better in real time. 


Now, that's sort of, again, and I tell patients, let's see if we can find hot spots of where this, you know, this air reserve is speaking to us. We did a very, so again, we play with it around these areas, you know, again, similar to dry eagle egg or to a deep tissue massage. 


I remind this about our patients, I always say afterwards, you kind of feel like you went to the spot, like you feel this, like, you know, sort of deep relaxation kind of thing. And we did, do you want to talk about the space? 


This is a cool place. Here, go ahead. The idea of diagnosis is really cool. Raise your hand if you've ever heard of a man who cannot control his ejaculation, and less than one minute, this thing is done, called premature ejaculation. 


If you have nothing else to do, you own one of these machines, which hopefully one day you'll consider. Take the man. take the shockwave probe to the phrenulum, F-R-E-N-U-L-U-F, and put it at normal energy that everybody else tolerates. 


That person will jump off your table. And what we're using the shockwave for is for focal penothesiscesia diagnosis, which is a very common problem in premature ejaculation. Their phrenulums are super, super sensitive, which is the basis for them being nothing to do with women's sexual health, but you did bring up use of this as a direct opportunity. 


Well, if nothing else to do, drag the PD patients around. This woman fell on a bicycle park. Now, this huge hematoma on her lady, she couldn't sit, she couldn't do anything. She not referred to us. We essentially did multiple shockwaves to her vulva every week, and within 10 days, the whole thing had disappeared. 


So we had another use. of the product. We do it pre-operatively on patients having the stimuli. We do it pre-operatively on patients with the stimuli need to reduce pain and increase blood flow on healing. 


It's a fabulous construct. You want to do the ink on it? So this was really interesting. Several people said, oh you got to study shockwave for sharks and continents. And there's some basic scientists, Tom Lew, who's the other, the other we both seen, I would say, is mental medicine. 


And he did studies in rats that really saw it and put it in urethral, smooth muscle, right? And he wrote a smooth muscle. And so, so they said, let's try it in people. And I said, it's not going to work. 


Like, I don't really get it. I don't think it's going to work. So we did a little pilot in our office, because they said, I want to see a signal. I want to know before we go in, and I already do all this stuff. 


So we took a handful of patients in our office, and we said, come in our office if you have stress and confidence, and let's see what this thing does. And I wasn't the one doing the treatments. We sent out an ad out on our newsletter, and I was in the park one day with my kids. 


And a woman I've never met before comes up to me, and she goes, are you Rachel Rubin? And I said, yes. She goes, you cured my stress and confidence with your weird shockwave machine. And I said, what are you talking about? 


She said, oh I saw in your newsletter, you don't know me from anything. And I came and I did these treatments, and my stress and confidence, and I said, well, that's pretty cool. Now I'm going to write the IRE, and do the actual work. 


So I think it's really interesting. Again, similar, we've seen this with testosterone and stress and confidence, right? Where you can bulk up the fluid muscle of the urethra, and we can see some improvement. 


So what about both together, right? What about all of those approaches? It's really, really interesting. Yeah, there's more. And this will end this time. Take questions. So, okay, no questions, he says. 


But there's a cellular light. For people who don't like cellular light, this is... This is a strategy for people who have had reconstructive surgery on their breast or breast cancer. Nipple sensitivity has been shot to the end of the brain by a shot to the end of the neck. 


This was Arabic. John is here. I can tell us if you could ask her about it. We have a physical therapy department also who uses this device on people. People who have aroused this sort of addiction. We are all trying to help with it. 


This is another strategy we deploy on a very limited side of a profile. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you. 
