

Please refrain from filming and taking pictures during the session. If you have questions, please open until the end. We'll let both speakers go first and then we'll have more questions afterwards. I'm going to introduce the two speakers. 


And with only a few minor changes in spelling, my pronunciation is actually pretty close to how we're going to get done. So I'm going to invest. Our first speaker will be Dr. Monique Le. She's a clinical psychology sexologist. 


We did her training in Belgium in the Netherlands and completed her Ph.D. at Cambridge University in Belgium. She currently works as an assistant professor at the Department of Clinical Psychological Science at the University of Brunswick in the Netherlands, where she teaches multiple courses and workshops on sexology at the university level and in post-academic sexology training programs. 


Her research involves psychological studies on basic methods of sexual functioning, dyadic interactions between partners, and attachments in relation to sexual responsibility. Her main focus of her research is on sexual interaction between partners, and her clinical research focuses on female genital pain. 


She has booked Maastricht University on the map of international sex research by a fellow in a sex lab, which allows her innovative research designs to remind her various physical measurements in couples during sexual arousal. 


She's editor-in-chief of the Dutch Journal of Sexology. She's secretary general of the European Society of Sexual Medicine and co-chair in grants and in crisis committee for a fine-sex center. Our second speaker is Nikal Blue-Starwich. 


He's a medical associate professor and head of the Department of Psychiatry at the Center of Postgraduate Medical Education in Warsaw, Poland. He's also associate professor at the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology and visiting Professor... 


at the Department of Social Psychiatry and Psychotherapy at the Hanover Medical School in Germany. He's long been involved in interdisciplinary studies integrating somatic diseases, mental disorders, and sexual functioning. 


His recent research interests include also sexual behavior focused on neuroimaging and pharmacology. He's a fellow in the European Committee of Sexual Medicine and a supervisor of sexual therapy certified by the Post-Sexology Society. 


He works in the field of sexual medicine with both men and women with sexual dysfunctions, works with couples, and with transgender parents. He leads an interdisciplinary team at the Food, Storage, and Therapy Center at the Warsaw and is a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Sexual Medicine and the ESSM Scientific Subcommittee of Human and Sexual Health and Dysfunction. 


So, don't further delay. I will pass it back to Dr. Miller. Thank you for the introduction and for coming to my name in Toronto to love it and not always easy in English. So today we're going to talk about the future of sexual relationships and actually starting with the question, is there a future for sexual relationships? 


Because we all know that the number of signals is rising. In Europe it is, in the United States it's the same. So it's good to reflect on this. Why are so many people in, don't want to have relationships anymore and we think about the compartment sex and we see a lot of people having sex without being in a relationship. 


So a lot of us are looking for the true love, the true one and only soulmate or romantic partner, the romantic ideal which is kind of this emotional physical bond between two partners. And if you ask people to associate with the term of romantic ideal, they would say emotional connection is about physical intimacy, it's about commitment and support, passion, attraction, it's about exclusivity fidelity. 


Now is this romantic ideal sustainable in our modern society because we know that social norms are changing. A lot of people are preferring personal growth and career for part of that relationship. Ideas, traditional ideas about monogamy and marriage are evolving because we see all this high rate of people. 


So people are questioning this or people are saying this is what it should be. We also know that in our current society there is much more acceptance of consent for ethical more modernity and I think diversity is the key value in our modern society. 


It's diversity in terms of gender, but also diversity in terms of relationship types. We also see... to change in how we develop relationships with all the dating acts, which we chose over the road, commitment hesitancy has great implications for whether or not people will engage in relationships. 


Social media sets these idealistic standards of the romantic ideal, they seem unattainable, so people disengage because they think, well, that's not for me, that's just social media, that's not reality. 


And it's also now a base that there's a general trend being more acceptance of being single, there's less social pressure. Before being single was more like this temper situation that needs to be fixed as soon as possible, it's kind of there's something wrong with you if you're single because the norm is being in a relationship. 


This is changing, ideas about whether or not singles can be happy, single, this is clearly changing. But still, a lot of us are still looking for the one and only romantic ideal Now, let's think about the evolution of the romantic ideal. 


Our sexual system is directed towards passing gene to the next termination. So having sex with as much as possible so that we can spread our genes. Somehow, a long-term relationship is beneficial as well because as a child is born, it's very vulnerable. 


So it's actually beneficial to be raised in a stable environment for two parents who take care of the child, and that's how our artificial developer, for your age theory, it takes about four years for a vulnerable child to be more or less mature or independent. 


So that relationship of four years and in the case of two children in 57 years, that's functional, and of 57 years, you can spread your genes together. So from a uni by a local point of view, we're not monogamous. 


We are more cerebral or social monogamous. Now, for the longest, largest part of humanity, we lived as hunter-gatchers. We lived in communities. We had shared resources. We had sex with everyone. There were not really fixed relationships. 


We had children. We really had them with the father gods because we're all taking care of each other's children. But at a certain point, there is a price for which. People started to gather capital. They started to gather resources and wealth, and they wanted to pass that down to their observation. 


So at that point, it became important for fathers to know who is my child. So I can be sure that my wealth, my resources, go to my biological children. And that kind of started, it was a start for monogamy. 


So for a long time, then, marriage was more like a practical, economical arrangement based on financial security, social status, autism, it was also the impact of religion, stating us that monogamous relationship was the only true relationship, and all the rest is simple. 


But then there was a romantic period of 1819th century that the impact of the philosophers, of the art, of the romantic. And that relationship became based on passion, on deep emotional bonds, on personal choice. 


We were looking for the true love, the soulmate, the one. That actually changed during that period. So that love became more of a different set of financial stability. But of course, when it's a personal choice, it also means a personal failure when you fail to achieve that with all the consequences. 


So, purely biologically speaking, sex and love are different things. But society has kind of enforced monogamy because of stability. And so you have all kinds of combinations. If you think sex and love are not going to fight, you can have high sex, high love and passion love. 


You can have one-night stands with a lot of sex, love, love, love. Convenient love, which means not much sex, but love, love and so on and so on. And then we also have consensual monogamy and insexuality. 


Now, if we think about consensual monogamy or ethical monogamy, this relationship structure or partners would be agreed to engage in romantic and sexual relationships outside the primary relationship with the people. 


Now, the basic idea of consensual monogamy is honesty, openness, consent, and interpersonal choice. This kind of a gray zone here because this relationship do not necessarily need to be symmetrical. It can be that, for example, one partner said like, I wanna have this sexual variety, I wanna explore sexuality, I wanna open the boundaries. 


And then the other partner may agree. I don't feel this need but I agree that you do it. But sometimes it's like, is it then really consensual? Because maybe I agree because I'm afraid that otherwise he or she will leave here. 


So then it is a little bit of a gray zone. We have three most different types. We have the open relationships, which is focus more on sexual exploration. Swing, we're just speaking about sexual variation and then there's the polyamory. 


Polyamory is much more about the romantic connection, emotional connection rather than the purely choice of sexual exploration. So we can base ourselves on behavioral definition looking at what we see in terms of behavior. 


But for a lot of people, it's kind of a sexual identity. It's a lifestyle, it's a choice. It's kind of a sexual orientation to be polyamorous or to be in an open relationship. Now it has become increasingly popular. 


It has always been their normal, honest relationship but they were more clandestine also because of religion. We also know it has been quite common for a long time in gay and bisexual relationships. But nowadays it's much more widespread. 


It's more accepted, it's more visible. People are talking about it. What we know from research is that people who have no monologous relationship do not show more sexual risk behavior. That was kind of the hypothesis for a long time. 


Except dating for swinging, because there's a lot of stress that is going on in swinging, so we have to be careful, and it's an important group for prevention. They do not have low mental health. It could actually be somebody showing up higher mental health, and they do not score lower all relationship indicators of quality satisfaction and stability. 


Jealousy is common about emotion in a monologous relationship, but it's not necessarily experience is negative, because I think it's just part of it. It's kind of an empathetic joy. Of course, I'm jealous about my part of this wicked young woman, but I'm also happy that he's enjoying his sex life. 


Communication is key and secure base. I think it's really important also as a therapist that we can suggest open relationships to apply this. For example, there's really a discrepancy in sexual desire and one different thing is it's really difficult to compromise some couples, all relationships can work. 


I think of this couple in which one girlfriend had this M-Fantasies and the other part really preferred to the Middlesex. They tried different things, she did workshops and bondage, but she didn't really feel it. 


But then she thought, I don't want to ignore your sexual issues, I don't want you to end up in sexual frustration, so they don't know the relationship. So I mean there are different possibilities to suggest it, but you can only suggest it when there is a secure base, when communication is good between partners, because it does put some challenges towards the relationship. 


Now there are different types of relationship, having implicit or explicit rules, like for example ex-partners that I've been using so not allowed, repeated partners are not allowed, for example in case of example I did, it was for that a couple important that you can go one time in a month to a bus route, but it always needed to be somewhere different than not in a visit. 


During a drug-only meeting, through conferences you can have sex, but not there in other situations. Prioritize the open relation, primary relationship, transparency, wearing condoms, and respecting boundaries and tolerance. 


Now why is it so popular? Because a lot of people are kind of going to reject predetermined social norms, I don't want society to enforce certain rules only, and because as I said, diversity is a central value in our modern society, we want to explore different possibilities. 


It's kind of an umbrella term, because we know at the individual level that consensual non-modern belief is practiced in a variety of ways, so there's a lot of differentiation, but apart from that, apart from the fact that it's more acceptable, we still see that the monogamy is still kind of the preferred relationship type, so it's still this bias towards monogamy, which means that people in open relationships, 


especially the ones in swing relationships, suffer from stereotype, stigma, and minority stress. I think it's a good thing that we are becoming more accepted of diverse relationship types and that we're not enforcing certain rules, but at the same time we have to be careful not to create new norms. 


Because I think it's good that nowadays young people check with each other like, okay, all these actually exclusive or not instead of just simply assuming it. But I think also when you're in a longer relationship, what you hear is just checking in with each other like, are we still okay with this monogamous relationship? 


And if you are, that's okay, that's good. You do what works for you and not what you're expected to do. So I think this is really important. I wish to not demonize monogamous, stressful relationships and then think that open relationships is the only thing that's acceptable. 


But if we then see that people are letting go of these sexual exclusivity, that romantic relationship does not have to be based on sexual exclusivity, why do we still want to be in a relationship? Because we're opening the boundaries, but still a lot of people... 


are still looking for this relationship partner. Now this has to do with our attachment leads, which is our basic human needs. And it's actually essential for survival as children. When we are born, we are born with an attachment system. 


Which is important because as a child, when you're hungry, when you feel dangerous, when you're threatened, you wanna reach out, you wanna give a signal to your attachment figure. Hey, I need you, you cry. 


Your attachment figure picks it up. So your attachment figure can comfort you, it can give you a secure base, so you can explore the world again. So that is what happens in secure attachment. You give a signal and your attachment figure secures you, comforts you. 


But when your attachment figure is not there for you when you need them, then people develop alternative strategies to deal with it because at this field of insecurity continues to exist, children cannot regulate your own emotions. 


They need co-regulation, they need the caregiver to regulate, to help them regulate their own emotions. So when the caregiver is not there, what will happen is anxious individuals will feel like, you know, you're not there for me when I need you, but I'll keep trying. 


And if I try hard enough, eventually you will give me the support that I need. While avoid the individuals feel like, okay, you're not there for me when I need you, well, I'll do it myself, I don't need you anymore. 


And they disengage. Now, based on these first attachment experiences, we developed these schemes, these ideas about am I a virtue of love? Are others reliable and available? And these are the basic attachment schemes that will continue to influence throughout life. 


Whenever we need people, peers, coaches, teachers, friends, partners, this will be guided by these first attachment schemas. Am I unique to you? Do you choose only me? And are you there for me when I need you? 


Can I rely on you? Do you offer me security? And can I show who I am without the fear of losing you or being rejected? This is the basic. feelings, and this feeling that I'm unique to you, the desire to be desired, is an important source of eye encounter. 


We know from research that, for example, infidelity is not necessarily driven by sex, it's often driven by this desire to be desired, and I don't feel that in my primary relationship anymore. Now, these attachment experiences, these key must go happening back on sexual relationships, like secure individuals, they can sort of share instances and trust and satisfaction, also in their sexual relationship, 


are open to communicate, they will try out things, they are confident. Of course, it does not mean that they don't have sexual problems, but if they have a sexual problem, they can deal with it, they will try to seek help from it. 


Anxious individuals, their relationships are correct, right? They are more obsessed with love, they are quite friendly, they seek for a lot of proximity, and it's never enough, which puts a lot of pressure on the partner. 


There's a lot of fear of abandonment, and we see that also in their sexual relationship. They kind of tend to fuse sex with love. They're constantly worrying like, I'm a really good sexual partner, thus she still loves me. 


And what is very typical is that they're hyper-vigilant for signs of awaiting sexual desire, because your partner always has to prove, I'm still in love with you, I still want you. Affordant individuals, they want to keep their distance, independence, autonomy, they have issues with intimacy and amusement. 


So also in their sexual relationship, they tend to separate sex with love. So there's a lot of performance demand. They're not really sensitive for the sexual needs of their partner. They're very much focused on themselves and prefer for the casual sex. 


So you can see that when it comes to partner and un-partner sex, we see that anxious individuals really are striving towards un-partner sex, or what individuals may be inclined to sort of keep un-partner sex. 


Now I think as a disclaimer, I think this is really important when we talk about attachment. For a long time, it has been seen as this stable personality trait, but now we know, obviously, that we have multiple attachment figures in our life. 


So we can have different attachment orientations. It's always evolving. You can be raised in an insecure environment, but then meet new people who give you a secure base. So it's really a dynamic, relational, dimensional construct. 


It's not a stable thing that is a blueprint to our life. What we do know is that these first schemas never disappear, so they can never be overwritten. Now, so we have this need for closeness, and this is actually also where Sue Johnson and EFT, where emotionally focused therapy has been based on, is the fact that, you know, relationship problems are actually due to a fear of losing connection. 


So in therapy, we're focusing a lot on the conflicts, the negative things. But she says, like, you know, relationship does not fail because of the conflict, but because of a lack of connection. So we need to focus on increasing positive emotions. 


That's also the idea of John Gottman, who states you can have a lot of conflict, but the race choice is five to one. So you need to have five times more positive experiences than negative experiences than your baby. 


You also have, on the other hand, the need for differentiation, because obviously you want to have closings, but if you then think about David Schnart, as Pharrell, they're really about differentiation. 


It's about relationship problems as the focus of therapy, because they provide opportunities to grow, and it's really about differentiation, being true to yourself, and having an interaction with the other. 


Because a lot of times in relationships, we don't dare to say what we want, because we're afraid we're going to hurt the other one. And David Schnart says, you know, you're all responsible for yourself, be true to yourself, and the other partner needs to learn to suit themselves. 


So it's really about me and you, and not only about we and us. A lot of couples are stuck in this we and us identity. Not only this to modern society, because it's clearly the tension between autonomy and connection. 


We have this eye culture, self-actualization, personal growth, and if your partner doesn't fit your personal growth anymore, well, then just leave and then see someone else. So there's kind of this tension here, and again, diversity and liberation from traditional role patterns. 


On the other hand, we do see a movement of people wanting to go back to the classic relationship values. I'm sure that Donald Trump has a lot to say about that. Sorry, I can't, I have to say something. 


So what we see is when you ask young people, they're still striving towards a romantic ideal. They still want to have this true love, and it seems that when people grow older, they start to sort of mislead the romantic ideal because of all the experience. 


But also the rise in singles challenges the romantic ideal, because we see there are a lot of singles, and singles also have sex, so sex is not exclusive to being in a relationship. In fact, there's evidence showing that being single is related to more satisfying sex lives. 


They have higher levels of happiness, at least when they feel social support and when there's no discrimination regarding being single. But on the other hand, there's also this really strong evidence showing that being in a relationship has a lot of benefits. 


We see for the elderly, forensic to the populations, LGBT to human, that it's kind of a protective factor, resilience factor. So how can we reconcile that being in a relationship had all this health benefits, mental health benefits? 


Well, it's not really about being in a romantic relationship. It's about having these basic attachment needs met. It's about having a secure base and feeling supported. So must one person satisfy these attachment needs and can attach them only... 


and has to tell the romantic relationship. No, of course it's not. We need to stop treating being single as the opposite of being in a relationship, because singles have a lot of significant relationship, a lot of meaningful relationships. 


They imagine too. So it's not order relationship or being single. We should stop imposing norms on the fact that being in a relationship is the only relationship that matters. Being single and having significant relationships matters as well. 


And to conclude, I think I've talked a lot about diversity. There's a lot of diversity in singlehood, because obviously we have the half the singles of personal choice, but there are also people who are single not because of their personal choice, because of external circumstances, like of finding the right partner, that has experiences, career, busy lifestyle, social isolation, but there's also this feeling of commencement, 


what we see for example in avoidant individuals, and it's the fear of missing out, what we see in our online dating, is that there's so much choice before you have to choose a part within your own town, but not even choose well, and people don't dare to choose anymore, there's decision stress, there's this white culture, casual dating trends they don't want to commit because they're afraid maybe there's someone else who matches me better, 


so let's keep the eyes open, and that puts a lot of pressure on young people and on relationships, we also see that people have these idealistic ideas about a partner, your 15 years on a dating app, you don't know what your time is, what is the part where you want, so you're swiping based on idealistic spirit that the idea of what a partner relationship should be instead of experiencing, so there are still some challenges on how to approach this development, 


but I think like with everything in life it's about tea and it's anti-teens and then there's a sin to use, and I think that's what happens, I think these basic attachment needs about amigurative law for other people who are liable, that's the basis, we always will look for that, and there are just different ways how this will manifest itself which depends on our societal values, thank you. 
