

prostate cancer patients because I've been also living in this space of prostate cancer for almost 20 years and the focus on couples is really a relatively recent development in prostate cancer care and focus on the partner even more recent than that and so to be able to speak to this audience that is going to be treating and that is already treating the partners is very exciting to me. 


Okay, soldiers. So I think now we can just agree on a couple ways of approaching the sexual recovery of prostate cancer treatment and that even when we don't have a police officer, we are always looking out to not just a patient but a partner as well as a relationship with stakeholders in this experience. 


I want to tell you something who have made the feelings and the couples. So the five main partners in research was taught by a nurse research professor, Dr. Laura Marhouse, who herself was the wife of a cancer survivor and understood the importance of understanding the partner's appraisal of the experience. 


Karen Pfizer was a social professor since we retired now and she worked in breast cancer and she was the one who coined the couple disease phrase. Then you know other speakers have spoken about their relationship between the patient and partner sexual dysfunction. 


There are two minor studies coming to quote but many of you probably know Dr. Sharon Mani who told us probably 20 years ago that men couples don't share their worries about cancer, they don't function well and that's true about sex as well. 


she's been a big contributor. Guy Baudemarle is a Swiss researcher who developed a dyadic coping scale. And that coping scale looks at the patients and partners, positive and negative coping, can be applied in a variety of settings and allows itself to be used for partner, after partner analysis, dyadic data analysis. 


So this is a very useful measure. And Dr. Fagarnes has taught us that when patients and partners cope in a converse fashion, they cope better than if they are getting converse with each other. So if you're positive and are negative, you're not gonna do as well that if we both are positive or even both negative. 


So these are the guides on whose shoulders we stand today. Providing realistic expectations. is a very big and important aspect of prostate cancer care because men tend to have unrealistic expectations. 


And we did a study at the University of Michigan and reported on it in 2011, when we surveyed about 150 men before treatment and asked them what they imagined that our function was going to be a year after surgery. 


And only 32% of them thought that their directions would be worse after surgery, when in fact probably about 80% of them were. And as many as 11% of patients thought that our actions would be better after surgery. 


Go figure how that happens. We used to joke that heavy prostate cancer was a predictor for improving our entire function. So then we instituted a pre-treatment seminar where we educated patients and partners on the side effects of treatment, rehabilitation, the emotional aspects and couples recovery. 


And we didn't measure the same way, but we found that after this, 73% of patients thought their directions would be worse after surgery, and 65% of partners thought their directions would be worse after surgery. 


So this is interesting because there was a significant difference between the patients and the partners, and the partners were still a little bit overly optimistic. And 84% of patients thought that the ability to be sexually active after prostatectomy would be different, and 78% of those partners thought the same, against the physical difference between those two. 


And we still have both patients who thought their directions would be better after surgery. So expectations are very important, and you really have to tell patients how to dissipate not just the sexual side effects, but also the emotional response. 


And what we learned clinically was that when people began to make love after treatment, and there was this whole adaptation to a new sexual paradigm, it was hard. They had feelings in the process of making love. 


They felt like maybe they would be able to accomplish the sexual activity. It took longer to stimulate. They had to incorporate sexual aids. Negative thought began to intrude into their minds and focus on the pleasure of sex was obviously degraded as a result. 


And we explained this to them, this is brief. You know, this is your dreaming, right? In the middle of sexual activity, you can just stop, reassure each other, understand that this is a process and keep on staying active. 


And when people reach orgasm, you truly encourage them to continue being sexually active, but it's not easy. You know, for quite a long time, I tell people make that adaptation. We also were on the patience and partisan. 


both shared and unique, things that they agree. So they obviously share the loss of spontaneity and the loss of familial sexual interactions. And that's a group that they share. Men, singularly, agree and also change in one way. 


So original or just about sex, they are also about the way men experience their bodies and themselves as individuals. It can be a threat to masculinity and it can be a threat to confidence but satisfying their partner. 


And some men say they feel the loss of ejaculation. You know, they can have an orgasm perfectly fine. The loss of the experience of ejaculation sort of passing through their penis and then knowing that it's been a minute is something that they really miss. 


And some partners also decide that way. But especially patients. And partners have to learn. They be sure enough that they say, you know, I can get an orgasm any other way, many other ways and I don't need intercourse. 


It's an important reassurance but it doesn't get at this part of a man's grief and a man has to review the space to have those feelings. Partner, singularly, agree, penetration. And if women tell you, oh, I don't care about penetration, it's true for some and it's not true for everybody. 


We didn't agree with penetration because it's not just about orgasm. It's a really very unique form of intimacy and some women didn't agree with it. In some cases, the man is the provider of initiation. 


So he, that is his role. And then when he becomes very secure and doesn't initiate, the partner may have to be the one who takes initiative. And sometimes it's quite hard for partners to switch those roles. 


And women sometimes interpret a man's erection as a sign that he's attracted to her. And then when they, direction he's not there, the woman may feel like he's not attracted to me anymore. So this is some of the things that partners have said to me. 


When he penetrates, after he uses the pump, he doesn't feel the same, and I can no longer have an orgasm with penetration, and that's very upsetting me. His penis is too short. So sometimes men have a finature image that makes them unable to penetrate. 


I don't have to initiate, as I mentioned before. And then men will say, she's going to leave me. They're afraid that the woman is going to leave him. Very low level. That's why I'm going to sleep. And I don't demand anymore. 


So both men and partners suffer, and they really have to be aware that they go through things together and also separately. So who can help couples recover? We did a study where we interviewed 20 couples before and after searches for prostate cancer, and we learned that the couples that were poised for a better recovery were ones who were able to share normal grief, who kept on being sexually active, 


accepted their sexual losses and use of sexual aids, and the partner that had a positive attitude towards sex, who were interested in sex, and many of these women were both menopause also, despite menopause. 


The ones who didn't do so well were couples who couldn't cope with losses, who avoided sex, who had existing relationship problems and stressors, who could not be flexible in how they made love, and when the partner was with him not that interested in sex anyway. 


And when we asked them, what would demonstrate to you, what would represent to you sexual recovery after this experience, this is what Mangako said to us, and I think this was quite representative. I wish I could be back on these unselfconscious, because just imagine the selfconsciousness that goes on, when people lose that familiar sexual interaction they have to start anew. 


So note that this is not return of air to love function. They were not saying, that would make us feel and we recover because it's the other. It's really the emotional sense that we can be ourselves with each other. 


So in this review of various studies of couples with prostate cancer, these are some of the factors that contributed to maintenance of sexual relationships or recovery of sexual relationships, maintaining connection, working as a team, not shooting each other from feelings, experimenting with new sexual activities, and re-eroticization of the body. 


And there are many ways to go there. I mean, all of you are familiar, excessive. to reduce anxiety and sort of develop expanded sensuality and move toward sexual engagement. Encouragement of flexibility, you know, which we've talked about in various ways here. 


Using oral sex, using mutual masturbation, using sex toys, visual stimuli, as John says, out of course. You know, sometimes people have to be convinced to do that. They maybe never did that after they were 16. 


And then once they were in the workforce, they stopped doing those kinds of things that maybe didn't matter to them. I mean, I've been telling stories about people coming to my office. They cry because they do not have oral sex. 


And they were so comfortable. But they got distributed fully because they all have orgasms. And I learned this problem. Encouragement. Our bodies can develop a sexual folks' eye away from genital cells as well, that's stimulating certain parts of the body, they're trained and focused on, you know, that's been the focus and getting over the reason it's important. 


Again, he's stimulating in some cases to orgasm, particularly in both sometimes ears, sometimes neck, sometimes butt, you know, different kinds of surface areas. And the other thing that is refused suggested that it's very important to recognize the privacy. 


The study that was read kind of parallel to our study in Canada, they interviewed 17 men about their couples approach to sex, you know, sexual pleasure, and or emotional, relational intimacy, and they founded the couples that did the best after prostate cancer treatment, treatment by the ones that placed value on sexual intimacy, because sex was the only move you had when you lose it, if you have nothing else to go on, 


you really are in trouble, but if you have emotional intimacy, you can probably also even work on it, you have a way to go, and they identified these factors as how couples read and relate sexual intimacy, and their acceptance, flexibility, and persistence. 


And sexual flexibility was also a factor that seemed to be correlated with sexual satisfaction in this study in 2020, so you're recording 2023. So sexual school satisfaction was really correlated with sexual satisfaction, and it was also a predictor of sexual satisfaction. 


So flexibility clearly is very, very important. Now here's a small study I made on the role of the partner in sexual recovery of And I interviewed ten patients and nine partners, and there were many things in which they said more or less the same things, and many of them just talked about the partner. 


And I asked the men one after another, well, what about if our sexual needs primarily things you would like? Things you would like. They hadn't considered it. And so it really changed my practice because I realized that we always talk about partners needing support from other partners, from clinicians, from their families. 


They need support from the patient as well, because that's their partner. If sex is going to be any good, it's going to be in control. And even though we... have compassion for the person who's going through the cancer experience, that person, who can really fully function as a partner, has to also have empathy for the partner who is sexually struggling after that experience. 


So they're really highlighted to really the importance of the partner's experience and advocacy that we all have to have in the back of our head when you think about sexual recovery after breast cancer treatment. 


And I want to leave with that this talk. The principles, guiding principles of the guidelines state, in two statements. One that we've shared by the vision of primary is the path towards recovery. And that people can really develop into sexuality despite dysfunction. 


And then including the partner in the sexual health counseling, both partners agree, is really critical. And just to mention, the 21 out of the 47 statements addressed to both patients and partners, really trying to honor that commitment to a couple orientation. 


So the take home messages from my part of the talk is include the partner in discussion of the sexual side effects of breast cancer and rehabilitation whenever possible. Couples do best when they work together as a team. 


Being able to express and tolerate each other's feelings of loss and greed, both for better sexual recovery and mutuality is key. Thank you. 
