

My reason for being here is that when I see the prostate cancer patients and the partners, it's often about two or three years after the treatment for prostate cancer. And that's where they still have problems with their sexual life. 


They really need some kind of advice and treatment to help them to get back to their sexual life. So some of the themes I'm going to touch upon are themes that were already raised when John described these questionnaires. 


So this is for the focus on what happens with, in this case, the female partner, but as Gerald said, this would also apply to male partners of male with prostate cancer. These are my disclosures. So I would like to focus on what is described in statement 19, that patient and partner shouldn't be counter-schooled, that an assessment of the partner's sexual function can help plan treatment besides just a total of couples with carbohydrate and sexual intimacy in the cases of prostate cancer. 


So, let me see. Getting prostate cancer is a coupled experience. I think that's really an important take-home message. It's not something that happens only for the man. And we know that people like what we talk about breast cancer and women is also a coupled experience. 


It's not only one part in the couple that have the experience. And this is illustrated in this study, where they look at sex with dysfunction in female partners of men who have underbound bicarcastectomy and correlate with sexual dysfunction on the male partner and the female partner. 


So they had 90 couples, and they had very good prostate cancer in their female partner, and the men would fill out the international, it makes a great type of function, and women would fill out the female sexual function index. 


And what this shows, not so surprisingly, but we tend to forget it, is that there's a correlation between the domains of the erectile function index and the female sexual function index. So if the man has... 


sexual problems, so has the woman, they're correlated. We don't know which way they're correlated, but it just tells us that we know that we're maintaining that if one has a sexual problem in the couple, the other one would also might also have a sexual problem. 


So what happens with the partner in the couple? I think this is so important to remember. And this is a study where they investigated the experiences of unmet supportive families and partners of men diagnosed with prostate cancer. 


It was carried out in three countries, six different countries, and they looked at 20 different studies, which were including more than 308 partners. Most of them were female, and they were aged from 32 to 88 years, because they have a large age span of these partners studied in this study. 


So, in the beginning, we always think that following a prostate catag diagnosis, the partner is a very, very crude companion in the cancer care continuum with the partner's support playing a really important role in the man's ability to successfully transition from the acute phase of the deceased to long-term survivorship. 


So we recognize that the partner is very important for the mass long-term survivorship. But I think my fault is also that sometimes we forget what about the partner's long-term survivorship in this dynamic that happens. 


And this is just to show you that when they looked at this study, seven different topics came up as being important for the female partner. It was related to the health care services, to family-related needs, to psychological and emotional needs, to social needs, to spiritual needs, to physical and daily life needs, and to interpersonal and intimacy needs, and that's what I'm going to focus on. 


But you can see it has an impact on her whole life, on her social life, on her family life. Everything comes out of the health care system. But if we focus on interpersonal and intimacy needs, there were several topics that came up. 


Communication changes in sexual function. How do we intimate with the patient following treatment? Reluctance to engage in sexuality, relationship changes with the patient, and where the access to health concerns related to sexuality. 


And we know these are all aspects that have a huge impact on her sexuality and their sexuality. So when they looked at them, they found some really interesting things. They found that the woman would try to shift focus to a firmly coupled bond with intimacy. 


So she would try to change the focus. They would say, oh, so nice. We have a very good relationship. We have a very good bond with each other. And they grabbed a little bit of the bonds of intimacy because that was very difficult. 


Also problem was that lack of intercourse as medication of attraction would make her lose her self-esteem. Because usually intercourse was a way to get confirmed that I'm very attractive, that's my self-esteem. 


There were differences in communication who would need to reduce level of physical emotional intimacy. That was about working with couples and also as John said, that's the first thing that happens if it's difficult. 


You stop being intimate, you stop sharing intimate thoughts and feelings. And that would make a doubt about the relationship. Also, she was very caring about the male part, so she would try to protect the man's sense of masculinity despite the problems that he had and despite that he might not feel so masculine, he would really try to protect him. 


But she would also grieve. There was a grief about what is missing, what don't we have anymore, what are we lacking in our intimate relationship. And also it was talked about that it was... Difficult maybe to be the one taking the lead in the sexual nudity trial, because maybe the script before was that he was the one taking the nudity. 


Now she had to do it and that would be very difficult. And also he was described as he would be mindful that he was a gradual process to assume sexual activity. So something that's difficult, something that we need to recognize might take time and work to go back to a intimate life. 


Another study was a study where they looked at unmet health needs for patients and female purpose following the diagnosis and treatment for prostate cancer. And it's a qualitative study of post on a community where people with prostate cancer can go and discuss having prostate cancer. 


And they analyzed post on women, 66 women and 66 post on male patients. They were not couples, they were women, female and male patients. And as you can see, it's very interesting that a lot of the post men and women would go and try to find out about erectile dysfunction. 


Because that's very common at the prostate cancer. But also you can see that many women were focusing on positive emotion, but also on negative emotions like frustration, also familiar sexual interaction, fear and anger. 


And you can see that's very prominent in the female responses here compared to some of the males. And also there was a focus on one of the female's personal relationship problems. Communication difficulties, feeling being pushed away, relationship conflicts and feeling isolated and concerns that sex life is over. 


And then there was also a study about sexual death treatment. How can we treat these problems like the men faces when they have prostate cancer? If they look at the part that concerns, it was about how do we expect a sexual repertoire. 


There's a need for intimacy and sexuality which is very often overlooked when they talk about it. to health care professionals. Very often, there's a focus on survival and not on quality of life, including sex. 


So there's so much focus on, I can't say that, you should be happy that you survived, but what about the life we have, what we have survived? Relationships, how does this affect our relationship, and how do we get access to a big child's age to treat these problems? 


But the Native women also shared concerns. There was a desire to share experience with sexual recovery and sexual AIDS. Come to terms with the changes in sexual violence, it can be very important for us as health care providers to talk to people, how do we get used to the changes, how can we live with the changes that we actually have? 


But there was also frustrating with the decision in sufficient sexual counseling for the conditions and a lack of inclusion of the partners. I think this is so important, and that's why so many people are here. 


because we need to think that it's very, very important to include female character when we discuss sexual health with men with prostate cancer. So my take-home risk is not that prostate cancer is a couple's disease. 


It has an impact on the couple. The part where the couple's sexual health is affected, very often negatively. The part where the sexual health suffers as to other aspects of her life, and there's a wish for more counseling and access to help from the team issue, and that's us as healthcare providers. 


Thank you very much. Thank you. 
