

So we're going to have to sort of do the impact that A was dated in, what happens to the construct of B, B, 1, our therapist at Boston, and her husband's brother-in-law. She's been here for a couple of years. 


She's been here for a long time. She's been there for shortly afterward, just before she finished graduation. And she's been our sex therapist for a very short period of time. My whole life was transformed because she's a sex-certified sexuality therapist. 


She's a sex-certified sexuality educator. She's a sex-certified sex therapist. One of the cool things is we lecture at universities that many of those issues, we lecture actually down with therapy at SDSU. 


And actually, as soon as we get back from this switch, we're going to speak to the students at SDSU. And she's a sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-certified sex-cert Thank you. 


That's the title of the CMA who will take credit for being here. I'm going to try to mask the slides and then double it. Do you know what that means? Give me a comment. Give me a comment on this. I'm pressing for the rest of the process. 


Give me a comment. Okay, so those are the faculty members who are interested in it. Okay, so of all the dynamic relationships with the CMA and my individuals with penises involved, we're going to pick on the one that has the curvature version and has the name for all the pieces. 


So, I don't know, can everybody imagine this concept? I do this with my patients and I go through it with you. You go to the wine and duck store for a specific drink and you buy a balloon that you stretch and normally you make someone in some place to make a doll out of it or a doll out of it or something. 


and you blow it up and it goes straight. The reason it goes straight is because the walls of the balloon are equally elastic. As you blow it up, it goes straight. Now, if you have nothing else to do, then you blow a piece of great duct tape, which doesn't strip, and you put it along one of the walls of the balloon, and you put it in your mouth, and you blow it up. 


What do you think the shape of the balloon would take, now that on one side of the ball there's an inelastic piece of great duct tape? The answer is it would curve towards the great duct tape. The next time you see a guy, and his penis is bent, this is a piece of great duct tape. 


It starts with a capsule called a chain collar. It's a chain collar, usually because it's a thing that strains the blood of the broken cataract muscle. And it just leaves your collar. There is a little bit of established synthetic that's shaped this way like a monkey eye or whatever. 


So that, if you expand, the penis extends, so that's the inner circle, so that you layer up the human side, and it expands the body to the end. That's the other model, too. And you have sexual problems with the eye and the back, sexual problems that can relate to the sexual problems. 


So this is the crony's sort of thing. It's embarrassing, it's humiliating, it's not even caring if you don't use it for sexuality. Just owning this thing is not much fun. And Dr. Marcy will get into it, totally fix it, try to eat it all again. 


And it's about 10% preference. Does anyone know a woman's sexual health problem by 10% preference? It's going to be H.S. B.V. is also 10%. So it's roughly the same preference And does anyone want to guess what is the most common reason for a partner's superior sexual activity, where the woman's coming down and misses. 


And the upper body comes from the erect penis, basically fractures the throat. So they do it as a tensile strength, tensile strength is exceeded, it causes a tear to tear it heels, and that wonderfully, beautifully parallel system of problems is no longer there, and I have a piece of great duct tape. 


So a problem with drugs, these are on the side of the test bed, but that some women don't want to be able to drive, and face the burden of these diseases, they actually do that. So, it gets complicated, I'm sure God knows how to roll it into all this cool stuff. 


So, if you owned one of these penis things and was indented in our class with bottle neck shape and a wild-based beard shape that is stable and cheek-full, and you couldn't hold it part very long, you too would not be so happy with this condition. 


And that may affect you with the relationship between you and your partner. So, we're going to watch a video. While you're eating, you're going to see a movie. Here we go. Whoa. It's two minutes. So, if you've got a partner that you want me to see, you should give it a go. 


Oh, look. Here's yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. This is yours. The partner that you want me to see. The partner that you want me to see. 


Did you all hear this? They're developing them a fibrous plaque, and they're two to get algincinea out of the penis. In the normal anatomy... The white... ...are surrounded by the dense, elastic fibrous tunica alginium. 


Literally means white... ...because of the violent nature of the tunica. In her circular and other longitude... Something in the development of erroneous diseases... ...are not to have a genetic predisposition. 


In addition, the pathogenesis of erroneous disease... ...is thought to possibly be a result of trauma... ...or possibly by a woman... ...such a trauma in all of your left-recognized bodies... ...and yet resulted in... 


...and maybe have blood that needs to be in the two layers. ...destruction of bastards of jap... ...thereby releasing blood cells in my furniture. Ultimately resulting in... And blood brings healing cells... 


...which is bad. ...is fully organized with all of them... ...with which the road by road contributes to the initiation of mass cells... ...and all these other cells. ...maybe here, such as TGF beta-1... 


...as well as neutrophils, macrophages, and mass cells... ...and yet normal proliferation of fibroblasts... and growing, it's completely chaotic, and it won't stretch, and that's the method, and it's consistent, disorganized in the position of type 1 and type 3, also. 


So it won't stretch, it won't bend. So you can actually feel this, it's a hard fight. Now if it's on the top, the curve will be bent, the top line will bend. There is the piece of gray dot. Now if it's on the side, the curve to the side. 


This stuff is nice too. I'm sorry, was that one too fast? No. We will have time. No. Okay. I'm sorry, was that one too fast? No. I think you can actually have a notice of the photos in the middle of the day, because it will be easier, but that's not to be actually interesting. 


Okay, so, when you met the person I'm on, I think it'll be alright. Guys, here are our pop sounds, you know, the tracking of the tunic up. So, you can divide drawings into like the early days, the Tuesday painful, and pretty sad. 


And, by the way, when someone's having sex with someone, when someone goes to New York, it's worth it. I mean, if you didn't plan to close as well, what is it? It's still very embarrassing. Why are you not very strong on the punch? 


You're not very strong. So, when I see someone, I'm like, I'm not strong. I'm not really strong. And that leads to this scar. So, the acute phase is the healing. You don't do that much with the true acute phase. 


I don't do that much with the acute phase. I don't do that much with the whole body. I promise you, it's not safe. There's no more pain. It curves a bit. It doesn't progress. It doesn't hurt. And we'll just try to get treatment of that. 


Next slide, please. Next slide, please. Okay. So, we talked about this. It's kind of bad. So, we have asked that we talk to Dr. Hartzell. We're going to talk about the psychological effect. And then we're going to talk about the biological effect. 


Mm-hmm. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Wellstein. So, for those of you who think you've got an introduction, Dr. Wellstein will be, um, I'm Dr. Hartzell. She has been working with Dr. Wellstein for four years. 


over those years, we've seen thousands of people with cronies. I also wanted to get a caveat that we're going to be talking about how our sexual relationships with the cronies, but there's a community, there's lots of different constellations, I think that's my head, better try it, all different types of relationships. 


And I'm going to start with a regional and regional now. The regional for me is often caused by an ulcer and penal shape, which can result in sexual exhaustion and psychological distress. And as you can see, they use the word ulcer and penal shape instead of deformity. 


So raise your hand if you work with penis owners. Okay, please do use deformity when you're talking about this. It's a literature editor and really it's kind of an ugly term. And then we're going to talk. 


We have them deal, they'll bench on it like, oh my, this is just a form. And our language, the language we use matters. What we don't know is that there's a little in the picture regarding the psychosocial impact of how this impacts the partners of the medical performance disease. 


And I talk about just a little that we do have. This first study was through my data and their colleagues. And they looked at 44 medical performance disease and then they were female partners. And they had them fill out a number of these questionnaires and I'm not gonna read them all. 


You can see what's in the outcome measures. And then here's the results. I'm gonna talk about them a little bit more specifically in the next slide. So overall, we've done that partners and then with performance disease, we're going to have decreased sexual function. 


So these are their partners, not the people with performance disease. The female partners in medical performance disease. They were from decreased sexual function, decreased sexual satisfaction and moods compared to the general population. 


And then looking at it more specifically, they found it didn't reach to which performance disease of the age of a year with sexual activity was important for them. So basically, if they have performance disease or if it wasn't affecting sexual activity for the couple, it wasn't as bad. 


But if it wasn't an interparent with their special ability to have sex, it caused lower sexual function, lower sexual satisfaction. They did add that and lower relationship satisfaction. They were all in college also did a study and I kind of really loved the top of it. 


So I can say it for years. If you look at the first one, the other female parents, I don't know if you know this, but women are all as bothered than men significantly. Um, by their appearance, the last times that are kind of obsessed with, like, women, like, look so differently, and have spoken, um, really easy, because even women must bother. 


But women have been, are, oh, kind of bothered by, um, interporters, um, and decreased frequency of interporters, and then, um, I thought, John, I'll just present it, it's just, uh, here. Yeah, no, he's right there. 


Awesome. So, uh, thank you for, uh, this information by him and Chris Nelson to the study on, um, patients with cronies disease, and they found that, that much cronies disease, um, 81% of them, uh, indicated emotional distress. 


And then, so emotional distress, you know, is bad, right? But really, 80% of them, um, have tolerance for the pain, like, you look at, um, having the most problem. 26 moderates in 21, so if you have any feelings, we'll be able to get you to trust, we're gonna be, and then we'll be focused at another importance of being afforded a relationship with the whole team. 


So, I mean, this really just drives me. So I'm gonna shift gears and talk a little bit about our bills, our bills, we've got literature and our sort of opinion. And so these are some of the emotional things that we can have on our services, like I just mentioned, which I'm all for, it's all just on hashtag anger, value, and just formula, like I said, it's kind of really a session that's in the shape of your penis, 


feeling some shame in and add to the means of work. And so for those of you who work with vocal owners or general public teams, probably here, I'm broken, I'm not lovable, those types of things, it's the same thing, just in these words, fear of rejection, isolation, so I actually have patience. 


I'm not doing my job, I'm not doing my job. So I'm not doing my job. He would not even be able with life, he wouldn't be able with anyone, but he would think it's my job. I'm not doing my job, I'm not taking this. 


They would notice that I'm not dating, and then they would ask why I'm not dating, and then I would have to like somehow, they would figure out that something was wrong with me that I had like approved penis. 


So he literally would just go to work, and then come home, because he may not have to go dating, but the isolation, like he may not with anyone. So much shame around the age, culture change. And then obviously it will get some intimacy. 


So other things that can happen, I think Dr. Goldstein alluded to, but you know, Dr. Howard is looking for an option for you guys. And then I had to tell them that she was obsessed with, like, every time they have sex, but they're like, you know what, if I don't think I'll actually do this. 


And then everything that Dr. Colton brought up that I think is important is something that started out further penis injury of both ends. Like, sometimes the female partner is like, oh, I'm kind of afraid to get out of this, but yeah, I'm afraid that if we do this, that we need to hurt it. 


And then I had to tell them that she was obsessed with, like, every time they have sex, but they're like, I'm not sure I think I can do this, I'm not able. And then, let's see, some other things that, in the ways that it can impact the relationship is that men might have some concern that they're not able to sexually satisfy their partner. 


about hurting their partner, we kind of discussed more of those sexual conditions depending on the curvature, what it looks like, there might not be a link to engaging certain conditions. Feelings of personal responsibility, like I said, I actually had two weeks, I had one partner who was kind of angry at their female, but it triggered their penis and it was a lot of resentment and then I had women who were ex, 


I reached out to them and had a lot of influence and had to work through that. One thing that I did say here, which when I was listening to Dr. Lippman's presentation, making it important to do a little bit of a week that goes on, you know, like, people who are up, you know, especially penis owners, they're pretty used to that, they're like, you know, playing with it, you already right, they know what it feels like, 


they know what it feels like and then so to speak a bit about that, that, like, this government isn't the same anymore, right? This isn't my penis. So in terms of treatment, approach is gonna go over and each of these, not frequently, but you can use individual couples in work therapy. 


To be honest, I don't think that's gonna be, I don't know, does anyone, has anyone worked with a 20-year-old woman? Oh, so there is, that's what you do, isn't there? So it's awesome, yeah. I've personally never done it, it would be awesome if I did, but I think it's like a really good stream of shit to all people. 


So first I'm gonna talk about individual therapy, at least I think a big thing, because therapists or practitioners can do is to help use correct language, so like, alter female shape and help target self-image and body image, maybe help the patient also to. 


instead of focusing on what they're missing as what has changed or what is wrong, like focus on what it's hoping to tend to and not let it steal anything more than it already has. And help with coping skills and negative emotions. 


In couple therapy, I think Dr. Woodman kind of talked about this, but kind of like making a special repertoire, it doesn't have to be female men, no sex. And so, you know, helping me, a couple of speaks, communicate a bit of sex, show me what satisfies each one of them, and then be creative, like what's my second most creative thing to make that be. 


And then, like I said, the crew therapy, which sounds like there's a group of expressioners over there that I'm intrigued with, but I think the thing I would love about this Um, is that you're not alone, because I think sometimes it's like, no, it's just like, we're not alike, we're not alike. 


People don't really talk about it. So these kinds of things, you're like, oh, I'm the only one. I'm the only one with a hurt penis, or, um... And then, this is a model, like, together for a remix of that one's for me to use, and I'll go over each of these in detail. 


And, I think, when you think of a romance to lead, you're like, this is plastic and penis, obviously, this is a medical thing, they should just see a central medicine physician, which obviously they should. 


Oh, that's why I wrote that quote, please. But, because of all the reasons I instigated, it's also really important that they see a special therapy as a whole practitioner. Um, and so, what I would suggest for, um, standard of care, would be that both the therapist and the physician assess the patient like they usually would, and then the first thing is to collaborate, or to talk to each other about what they found. 


Then, to continue to treat the patient as needed, and continue to therapy. And, I believe that's the end of my life. I'm gonna turn it over to Dr. Rubin. Thank you very much, Dr. Rubin. That was super close by. 


Um, so, this is incredible. Look around, this room is full, and we're talking about male sexual dysfunction in a conference for women's sexual health, and it is so important. If I can go to the men's sexual health conferences and have this many people show up to our courses on women's sexual health, and we're all going to be able to do that. 


Thank you. So, for these, or, I do a lot for these, because these work, I, um, I go to the veterans. hospital in Washington DC, everyone says it's my co-owner of work. And I'm the Verones, I'm the fairly specialist, the only one at the GCBA, so all the Verones that happens for our veterans in DC is because I live in my fellowship with Dr. 


Goldstein, how to navigate this problem, and I feel very blessed because it is truly amazing, rewarding, incredible work. I never feel more like a psychoeurologist when you are navigating pyramidal disease because it is truly devastating to everybody involved. 


And you really have to do a lot of expectation setting and counseling because people come in and they just want their 19-year-old penis back. They don't care how hard it is to say, I want that one. I don't want the one that I have right now. 


And really, it's devastating because you have to explain to them, we're going to do better and we're going to get you feeling good, but I'm not getting... that 19-year-old woman is back. And it's really expectations are everything. 


And I always say, you know, you're gonna hate me for a while and then you're gonna realize that we're doing good work, this is working, and you're gonna be ultimately happy with the work that we do together. 


And we create that trust, we create that bond. And what they said so perfectly in the last session was, you know, Dr. Mulhall said this, he said, what are your goals? What do you care about? What's important to you? 


And I can't tell you how much we need to bring the partners involved in these conversations because once you get them talking to each other and you realize that it's actually mostly GSM, which is what the problem is, generally, you're gonna be sitting here looking at the phone and how much you actually not do. 


So the female partner is trying to, she has pain, she has discomfort, and she's got GSM. And she says, well, you're not putting that thing in here because it's crooked, so get away. And you're like, oh, it's not actually the curvature that's hurting them. 


And so the challenge is getting my deeply brilliant virology colleagues to ask about the partner and they got the work that they're doing to really expand that knowledge, which is really fabulous. So we have a toolbox, we have a toolbox for GSM, and we have a toolbox for male sexual disfunction. 


And you know what's funny is we talk about how great the toolbox is for men. I actually use a lot of my tools for my female patients and my male patients. And so we share between these toolboxes all the time. 


So the more you dive in to come into conference and we'd love to see you all at the SMS&A conference and all these ISSN conferences and all of this, you actually learn from other things. You say, wait a minute, look at me. 


The reason you know who I am is because I've taken the fibrosis, which is the most boring, penis diagnosis that exists. Every pediatrician and primary care doctor and neurologist knows what to do for fibrosis in penises. 


And I said, huh, what happens in the clearest? Right, because I learned from Dr. Goldstein and I get to have a freaking New York Times and you guys are all going about it and now it's so boring because I just took something from one area and I used it in the other area. 


So what do we have for this issue? Well, in their acute phase, and it's pain, penis pain is no fun, but we tend to try more conservative therapies until the plaque really stabilizes. And so we use, you know, NSAIDs, there's been some really excellent research. 


I'm using PE-5 inhibitors, so we love Cialis. It should be in the water, people. And that was like one thing I feel. I'm going to snatch it, you know, from a ticket on the Cialis in the water. Because it's a nice, smooth muscle relaxer, you can really get that smooth muscle relaxation by a amount of urinary issues, it's vaginal estrogen for an interesting way. 


So what else do we have? Well, we have a really cool idea for products, and off-label products, that we use to try to soften the plaque. Now, you see, why can't you just cut out the plaque? It's hard to cut it out. 


Let's learn about the penis's work, right? If you just cut out the plaque, and then the tissue, it's like this. It's like the penis is like a sausage. You have the meat, and you have the casing. Okay, it's too far from the casing of the sausage, and when it stretches, it gets big and hard, you need to contain the meat in the sausage, right? 


So if you cut out the plaque, which is the casing, it's for either of those options. So it's actually a challenge, surgical options are done, but it is a challenge because you really don't want a great peanut numbness or worsening the retinal dysfunction. 


So the very elegant thing was developed, and if you soften the plaque, mold the plaque, it can be very helpful. So we use things like collagenase, flustridium hystolymphum, which is the FDA-approved product, and then other therapies have been used to off-label some more effective than others. 


There is very cool, we use this at the VA, it's a basic, you know, traction device. His legend starts to learn something, I don't know if he's here, he is there, and he has developed the event, it's a really beautiful traction device, it gets better and it's free of charge, which is just a really beautiful thing. 


And just like physical therapy and back flushing, traction therapy and injections of these collagenase are matched together, so the synergistic therapy, when you really use it together, adenalidyls, yeah, a BV5 inhibitor is there, and you get some really nice effects. 


And so the other thing that has been researched on, actually, Franklin was there this morning, the shockwave, that sugar for a shockwave is the milk diet for carotidase, hoping that it can fix the curvature, and while it doesn't seem to fix the curvature, the data does show that it actually has to have pain. 


So for people who do have pain, the carotidase is what I'm going to do. Please, no problem. Okay, so has anyone here ever seen, oh my god, a penis traction device? Just, what is your active interest, you want to find it? 


This is a bad people tortured product. It's one end of the penis, it's a traction disease, I don't know, I'll be nervous for that. It looks like a many people tortured. We can't find it. You're glad you got on one of these, I'm just telling you. 


Well we're glad you got to the newer, slicker version of it. So any other thoughts on the classified? Do you want to respond to anything else? You're okay. You're always a fellow and I am here to just have a visit on the dance page with this group. 


So the CCH collateral, the sugar in his saliva, it softens the plaque. It degrades collagen type 1 and 2. And it has been used in treatment for a long time. It was FDA approved due to the research that many of the people in the room did about the impressed trials. 


And it's been looked at for the acute phase. It's been looked at for the conventional tumor material and the curve is on the underside of the penis. As well as indentation and hourglass deformity. Lynn? 


who the number one recruiter was in this room? I would bet on San Diego sexual medicine. With two of them. Thank you. Two of them. Thank you. All in many characters, which is on television. So the data, and I use these slides actually, with my patients, because it's not a quick fix. 


And it's not, you know, this is actually quite an investment that these patients have to do. Because they have to come in, sometimes every four to six weeks, they come in for a series of injections, and they can get some bruising and some swelling. 


And the data shows they really, the maximal improvement that they start to see is after already the third, or the fourth, sort of cycle that we call it. So it's not immediate. And so if you're going to come to the office, and I'm going to put a needle in your fingers, and it's going to hurt a little bit, and then you're going to go to the next day, and you may have some bruising and swelling, and come and do a baseball back to you. 


But you can have penetration for four weeks, because I don't want you to break your penis. That doesn't mean you can't use it. Actually, this is where it grows, and you can really get people to have other types of sex. 


Because I really encourage them to have fun during the four-week no-penetration rule. But, you know, you totally can. And then I give you a two-week call pass, you can have your two-week call pass, and then you come back for your next injection. 


And that gets the couple really talking about what does it look like in the time, you know, in the past, sort of penetrative activities. And I always tell them, I've worn them, because if you're not going to love me the first time, you come back. 


And you're not going to love me the second time, you come back. But people start loving me that third and the fourth time, even though they come back, and you're starting to really see the improvement. 


So, as with everything, expectations are everything. Just like when you tell someone who started, guys won't ask you again, hey, it's going to take two to three months. It might have been in, it's going to take a little bit of time, so you don't throw it out after the first month, because it's not working. 


So, you really do with these medications. You see a really big improvement in not just curvature, but in father around that. And I can't tell you how true that is. that is for my clinical practice and how much fun it is to see that improvement. 


So, as I said, bruising is the big one. We can see a lot of bruising and swelling. How do you counter your patients' technical things? How do you counter what? How do you counter your patients on the side of that, so CCH? 


I have a question. Thank you. I have a question. Thank you. Look, I'm really sad that it was true. So we know you guys are at the VA because I'm only there one day a week. We do every six weeks. We do one visit in our practice. 


So it's involved, and the research has involved a little bit of each protocol and the different sites. I do different protocols for this. We get great results with doing these one injection every six weeks. 


And so this is sort of what it looks like. I learned from Dr. Bonsky, you hold onto the plaque with one hand, you put this needle, you're like putting this needle into a brick wall. and trying to inject liquid into a brick wall is you actually have to struggle with it. 


You have to really spend a long time against pressure. You're trying to put this fluid in. And so this is the thing I'll show you at your showcase but I still do it. I'm gonna go see if you can see the little circles on your hands. 


I'm really pressing as hard as I can to make sure you're getting a really good injection sort of in. And I was so glad with my fellowship is we went to this day, we did a real work in San Diego and we have every room was filled with some of the periodic so you would just inject, inject, inject, inject, inject. 


So you'd be able to really inject her after that experience. So let me just make a point. So the tunic is two millimeters. The thing that holds all the blood in the fields is two millimeters, one. And that is taking the only front of the scan and put this two millimeter thing. 


And if it's two and a half millimeters, then you're out of the tunic. So it has to be, and there's no addition. So how the heck do you know when your needle is in the two millimeters? It's because when you press down on the needle from that medicine, it's highly resistant. 


If you're outside the tunic, it's just like an injection to suck your teeth. So it's gotta be that the entire tunic is highly resistant. And you gotta take your time and you gotta be passionate and love this crazy field. 


For a loaner work that's on an accident. So surgery is a challenge because some of the traditional surgeries is where if you're bending sort of this way and you plaque it, or you tap down or you pull it up with seizures, that shortens the penis. 


And when you're telling a guy you're gonna do surgery on his penis and you're a short bit, he doesn't like you very much. It's one of the best conversation. And then if you try to cut the plaque out, because the plaque often lives on the top surface of the penis where you have nerves and arteries and blood vessels, you have to say, hey, I can burst into erectile dysfunction and you may eat none of the penis. 


And so you're treating one problem for many others. And as we all know, surgery is the unintended. and the consequences could be life altering, just like these prostate cancer surgeries. No one can, like no one can, no one with a diagnosis of prostate cancer can imagine what life of the right child is functioning and what it looks like, but then when it happens, it's devastating, right? 


So surgery, there are various expert specialists reconstructing a neurologic prosthetic surgery, we just really do this a lot. And the advances are happening and it's been fun to watch this sort of this field. 


And so penile prosthesis is a really fabulous option for some of the severe reptiles and curvatures. So we basically put balloons, inflatable balloons inside the penis and there's a little pump that goes in the scrotum, like those old rehab pumps that you're all too young to remember, but then it comes up. 


So you pump it up, it does the hydraulic building on these balloons and you get an on-demand erection whenever you want and they talk about patient satisfaction. When you have an end-stage penis and nothing you do will make it work the way the patient wants it to, doing something like a surgical prosthetic is really an incredible, wonderful, an option for them. 


Are you listening to me now, there? You're good. That hasn't been said in the history of my level. So, listen, it's so shared decision-making and it is a joy to get to work with veterans on unfurling diseases. 


It is a joy to work with them every day to say, hey, thank you for joining us. Here's your menu. Here's everything that we can do. Here's the things that we can offer you. And we do have a witness we have right now as of today. 


We still have these options. I just got an email, as we're all sitting here, that the VA nation, I get to put a new triumph for the VA, to put women's testosterone in the line. So, they're practice, and we all need a little good news today. 


So, draft guidance has never been seen done on this anymore. So, I just really, really wanted to share the decision-making. And I just get an email that said, you need five things that you do at work every day. 


So, it's been a day. And I was like, okay, I'll take care of the perfect answers. So, we really have to do shared decision-making. We have to do shared positioning with all these patients. And you can't fix everybody. 


And so, it's really, you want to connect. Nothing is better than connecting people with the patients. And then they feel taken care of. They feel like they're a part of the decisions. And they know that you're not a magician. 


I would say I'm not a magician, but my batting average is awesome. Why? Because I care deeply, and I'm going to do the best I can with you. And you're going to help me make that decision. So, the more you understand the toolbox, the more you can advocate with your patients, I love showing them pictures. 


And the best picture I showed every male veteran I can find is the picture of the penis and the clitoris next to each other. I said, if we put this penile implant in, it does not make your female partner have better sex. 


So let's look at the clitoris and we've actually been talking about more vibration, more other ways of pleasure. It's really good. They get it. I've had men say, God, I'm 70, why has no one ever told me this? 


Right? Like I can understand, this makes sense to me. So we love common MSN, we love combination therapy and there's some research on this, which is fabulous. It's not, synergistic therapy for erectile dysfunction is, and you know what, I use synergistic therapy in my menopausal patients. 


No one just gets estrogen or just gets to stuff, but the ovary doesn't just do one thing. So you really have to do many things. You gotta treat the GSM, you gotta treat the hot flashes, you gotta treat the HSCV. 


It is not uncommon for our patients to be on a cocktail, and the pun is absolutely intended there, that our patients be on a cocktail of things to help them if they don't know this. They don't know that they're gonna need that. 


And so that's where we really wanna play this role of showing them how much fun it can be. You know, there's gonna be a sex as adult playtime. If you don't have just your, my kids don't just have one toy that they play with. 


You know, they have, there's so much, so many things that they could explore. You can give them permission. And that is our job, as clinicians, is to give the permission to pleasure, to give the permission to anatomy, to give the permission. 


You don't have, I was talking, I told you this all the time, I said, listen, you don't have to be like Michael Jordan to play basketball, like with your friends, like at the park, like play basketball, like have fun, you know, and so you have to dance. 


You can't, you can't stop dancing just because one thing is not perfect. And it's really that mindset work. We go to church a lot. I don't know what I should do with your girl. We go to church when we're talking because it is so transformational when you can get that mindset piece to click and you then have the biological tools on your side to just give them things to feel more in control. 


It's truly magic. So how cool that you are all now experts in parenting is that Dr. Colsey is going to keep this conversation going. Thanks, Dr. Colsey. Thank you so much, Dr. Colsey. Thank you. I remember I put this on my wrist where I'm sitting like the last time. 


This is what the tunic is supposed to be like, lasted. And this is what the tunic is like in promises. Wasting, like in doublehood, not elastic anymore. So now I'm bent. Is that visible? I'm going to watch the last thing that I'll do. 


So I just have two slides that are kind of left. So before I get to the slides, I want to point out this slide. So let's say you are a person with a vulva, and let's say you have something. So I wrap up where you guys are, and let's say I do nothing to you at all, and you're going to say, OK, then my sexual function won't really change. 


But I'm going to show you something about the amazing, amazing field of sexual medicine. Because in sexual medicine, I can make you guys better individuals with vulvas, and not do anything to you, but to do something to your partner. 


And this is the cool part of sexual medicine. You can actually help someone by helping somebody else. And I know that's not weird, but it's actually true. I'm going to show you. So this is the paper that we got involved in. 


She has this amazing vision in my life. There's someone who called around the phone and said, I have five other people that need to be recruited. Nobody wants them. They would have to come and vote. But her brain could see. 


I don't know how you do that. So on the far left, you could see that the curvature goes down. But if you look at the FSFI of the partner, these were all, um, and who had partners with whom they were having sexual activity with. 


And you see the post-treatment, a sort of, uh, you know, orangey color-y thing. These different graders, after the treatment, had nothing. Not to the women. They were just having sex with a less-curved penis. 


I just want you to think of that for one second, how that influences the FSFI. And we have similar data where we studied a PD-5 inhibitor. I don't know if Bill Fisher is here, but Bill Fisher and I were intimately in that one. 


And we had women with FSD, who was the source of less than an IC's point. And all we did was they had sex with, uh, I think we had either a placebo or the active. Those who had active partnered with the FSFI. 


And I was like, wow. Well, we replicated these data with this version of treatment. There's another study, uh, published in Translational Enterology and Urology, where they had, uh, um, so this is the, uh, 5IEF device, FSFI version, so how his sexual function, this has five domains, these have six domains, but they have extra domains, so you know. 


So, uh, the baseline on the last floor, and the statistic of ethics, and all that happened to the women, was their man, uh, had treatment for it. So, in summary, this is a CME program. We're designed to educate you about and beyond women's sexual health issues that women deal with. 


The women's sexual health issues can happen because their partners have sexual health issues. And we can actually impact on women's sexual health lives by proving the sexual health of men. And we just wanted you to go and understand that. 


So we're going to end this. I want to thank you. I think you guys are amazing. We can take your questions. We've got a few minutes. Yeah, I was going to say, I think it's really, really important that we ask our patients about, not just ask about their partners, in the context of like, you're safe, are you safe, are you safe, are you okay, but their partners have any issues going on. 


And ask in specific, show that you're actually interested, include that in the conversation. And I think the other thing, the question that I started asking is, well, What does sex look like now for you, and how do you want it to look? 


How can we make it look better for you? And it helps to get their goals because they think you know exactly what type of sex that they have. You have no idea. You have no idea. And so the more you can really open-ended questions of what does it look like for you, what do you want? 


What would be your goal? And I think this is helpful whether you're having men who have sex with men. They have this all the time. You assume you know. You have no idea. The research shows that it's so different. 


And so you really just have to end up being different for a different partner and things like that. So I think really asking about the partner in a very interested way and to show that you actually have colleagues that you don't see, both all people, have colleagues that you know will be kind and welcoming and thoughtful because they're a sexual medicine focused urologist and then there are general institutions that maybe aren't the best to the visitor now. 


Are there any comments please? They're awesome. Okay, please. Hi, thank you so much. Thank you. So I do see people of all genders. But I think that one of the things for anybody in the audience who is thinking about I don't know the GYN, how much do I really need to know about these uniqueness, I think you do know that women in heterosexual relationships have such a huge impact on the health care that their male partners get. 


And so female partners being empowered to go to their partners and say this is worth treating, there are ways to treat this, it's going to be safe and helpful to both of us to treat this. has an impact on the couple's sexual health, but the men's sexual health directly. 


Don't leave for one second. Hang on. You pointed out something fascinating, that the guy looks, because you can actually see. So they look at that all day. Women don't get a chance to see as closely, because they're like really, really restricted when they look like much better partners are. 


Not as concerned. Almost gone, you know. And I think that's a very fascinating thing. It's actually almost the one of the few places, I think, when it's by prostate, can nobody understand the menopausal women like a man on androgen deprivation therapies. 


Not only men can understand, it's menopause, actually. And I think priorities is another one of those populations, where the idea of women, who like believe them, like they think oh my partner doesn't like the way I look, they can't, oh I wish I were this, the partner's like you look great, what are you talking about, like everything's perfect, and oh no he's thinking this, he's doing it, and it's like believe them, 


and the priorities to see similar, the men think that it deeply matters for their partner, the partner will be there and be like literally, I didn't notice, literally, I had an idea, the vagina, like a watermelon came out of there for me, like I ate this for literally, I only just spilled it on her, like even, even in time. 


And then there's that piece of that third party, the doctor says the doctor says it, and you don't believe it, and it's sort of that moment of like believe, believe in your partner, believe that. Thank you, okay Michael. 


Yeah, first of all, right now, Rachel, your passion, and your just amazing, I agree with your experience. One thought I could have, one thought I could have came from a comment that I wrote yesterday about integrating the coaching that you do as a sex therapist, all the way from medical treatments, and I think just like we talked about, women who haven't been able to perhaps for a period of time, 


they can read a chest, it's so the same for so many of these men, it would have to be the way to get whether it's prostate cancer, which we've been talking about before, or brain disease, and if you're a single woman, you could have some of your last sexual experience, if you were to find out what's going on, and inquire a bit about it, oh by the way, you know, how's he doing, what's his physiology, 


what's he going to stay like? You can actually ask these questions, and then you can provide that kind of guidance that you're just talking to and suggest, if you wanted to come in for a session, what do you come in for that particular, what we're going to discuss, you know, what's his view of what our sexual situation is, and then when you have that person in the room, you have the outlets who didn't make that referral to a urologist, 


and you can integrate these kinds of ways. Thank you. Is there an incentive for disease among trans men? As far as I know, if you haven't seen any case reports, but Erwin and I were whispering here, as we do, about clitoral rhinism. 


I don't see why it was the same anatomy. So, of course, it exists. I just don't know if it's been reported. Sorry. Hi, I'm Lucy, and I'm a sex therapist in Los Angeles, Kansas City. And through the years, I kind of learned to start asking people about their job rights. 


I can't see their stuff, but who's realizing them in a session. I don't want anything fixed or anything, but I started, you know, sometimes people come in with sex therapy, and they come in for a kind of thing, and they think about relationships or dating, but they're really concerned about the sex. 


And so I asked directly, are you concerned, have you concerned about the sex? size or shape of your vulva, of your penis. And I've caught probably two animals and people or female partners or partner probably hanging on like, do you guys want a referral too? 


Because it's, you know, they're like, well, my penis does this. And they haven't seen anybody or talked to anybody before. So it's like part of this working as a TV surprise. They come to us first, but if we don't ask, you know. 


Well, actually, they don't know if something can be done. Yes, exactly. So how many people raise your hand if you're a mental health clinician or probably more medical therapist or not a, you know, you're saving lives, right? 


Because you're looking with your eyes and your ears and you get time and you can really educate. And so I can't tell you how important it is for you to be in this room and to be exposed to this and to see all the parts of this because it deeply matters for every single one of your clients and you save their lives, not us. 


Like, we help with the stuff that we know and they never get to us or they never get to these referrals. And you're the ones who know and who to send them to and find the clinicians who want to partner with you, who want to be friends with you, who want to text with you, because we do, like we exist and we matter, right? 


So thank you just for being here. Charles Rundell is an internist from Alabama. Always a mom and a prayer when we come. I'm always honored to be here. I don't know if you guys realize it. I think a lot of great grandchildren who were developed soon and got seen like that. 


In the history books, we're actually with Rothenberg, so it's always a honor to be here. Something happened with the numbers. I have a quick question for you, quick. With the numbers, we have Zichelitz University now looking at the side effects and they classified them in two different ways. 


One is the absolute, you know, fraction. The other is this sort of available number would have ever been popped but not been manufactured. And if you add the two together it's 5%, I mean 2% which is what it would be. 


Which kind of worried me because I wasn't sure about it. Now the little worry, some of the question is what's the real percentage with this announcement? We've got 30 countries where we're represented by the group now. 


And it's been pulled from Canada and Europe, it's been out of other countries. So I'm wondering why it puts the real number and does that have anything to do with it being pulled from the other countries? 


So actually we're not going to talk about that here. We'll talk about that. That has nothing to do with what we're doing today. This is about a disease state education. Being a reactor, I can tell you that we used to operate on clean health fractures because we were really concerned that the hole had never been opened. 


And the pump sounds after the administration. because by itself we don't have to offer it on. So it's a different activity, but we're not required. Let's move to the next couple. Okay, so, we're going to hear about you, our grandchildren apparently. 


My grandchildren are also nothing wrong about me. So you might don't know what you don't know until you hear it. I'm in my house with a little fisher, Michael Stan, Thorpe Goldstein, we're in the dining room. 


I walk in and they go, we're looking at this data showing that if you treat a man for his erectile dysfunction, and the woman touches the fight is better, but if it's blinded and her partner is on placebo, his fight is still bruised, and if he thinks it's getting better, her act is a fight is worse. 


And they look at me, what do you think? They go, duh. And for a long time we called it the duh factor. So my point is that we're sitting in the room and there are a lot of new providers. You've never heard of this stuff. 


And I'm hoping that you recognize how important this is. What I want to share is, a lot of you is actually a survey trying to find out what providers do or do not know about this. So please, the only way I feel for smokers is with research. 


So this is a shame. We're so glad that please participate in that research because it will help all of us work in the field, learn more, you know, help move the field forward, which ultimately will help our patients, which we're all here for, to help our patients. 


So thank you. Thank you. Hi, thank you so much for sharing your expertise today. My name is GloZella Lozano. I'm a fifth-year MD-PhD student working on erythral stricture disease at the University of Iowa. 


I'm wondering if there's any role for P.E.4 inhibitors in the P.E.B.A. or P.E.B.A. There was this disease that they act in the same manner as P.E.B.B.I. in terms of increasing that basic violation, but also anti-inflammatory, anti-vibrotic in the modulatory. 


And then also, if you could comment on what there was, an appreciable lowering of the... that came out of perpetuity, and does the C-book really impress you at all? I was just wondering what might have helped with that. 


Thanks so much. Well, Annie, I'll do the second one first. But all sexual medicine, everything that we never do has a placebo sponsor. People will say they're less bothered or happier, just being paid attention to. 


But the C-book doesn't continue to drop, whereas the actual product continues to drop. It wasn't the measurement that's left the actual curvature, like the percentage of curvature. It's just that you think that it's modeling, fingers crossed modeling with the... 


Oh, the modeling. I knew there was reason. Yes, we did treatments with modeling. So the modeling has a little bit of respect. The first one, CD4, I don't know, should run that at all. I know that the product has improved, so... 


a billion dollars in trying to do channel control, see little things and hundreds of steps. So I think we have to get that type of investment with alternative strategies, such as what we talked about. 


You know what PD for, is it even available for? Yeah, so there's like a bullet round in the last, so a couple of them are FED approved. For what? But you choose really COPD. Okay. That's one of those forms of psoriasis, I'm sorry. 


Yeah, we're gonna have to do something every day. Of course, we'll talk about it. We'll talk about it next year as well. We look forward to seeing you on our honeymoon. Yeah, we're working on it for sure. 


We've got research here, if I go on, we'll research. Yeah, we've got proof not about our aspects. We've already spoken. I guess the last question. Oh, you're not caring, right? Hi, I'm Karen Brandon, and I'm an in-sexual health and physical therapist. 


I'm a blood barter, so. Yay, hold on. I just wanted to say thank you to the scientific committee. I love this topic so much. This is a dream team up here. I've been waiting to hear this for so long, and it's, how many of you do practice in more than one gender, first of all? 


Yes, okay. And how many of you practice alone? Like, you don't work with a team inside of your system. Oh my goodness. So this is the place, it's so important. I thank you all so much, because let me tell you one quick story. 


My patient, now that you're dry. Oh, no. So we'll just move to the next slide. No, we'll be great. My patient was a neuro-gig patient, a female. She came in, I said, okay, I go over my normal screening, blood or sexual functions. 


She said, oh, my partner is embarrassed about his ED, he doesn't want to go talk to somebody. She was a LCSW social worker. So she's a counselor and she says, no, he's not ready to talk about it. So she said, you could just help me with my incontinence. 


We worked on it for the last day she came in and she did have GSM, right? And she didn't wanna deal with the risks of estrogen topical and she also didn't wanna deal with the pelvic floor relationship to the disc hernia because she wasn't dealing with that. 


She said, just take care of my incontinence. Last day she comes in, I'm ready to discharge her for the goals that she wanted to achieve and she had her eyes like tears and headlights. And I said, what happened? 


Is everything okay? She goes, you know that thing that I wasn't gonna deal with? He rolled over last night. Apparently he did go to urology and got an inhibitor and then he was ready to use it. And I said, well, what the hell happened? 


And she goes, well, I said, oh, wait, I have to work on this. I didn't get this taken care of. And. She said, thank you rollers, and never mind, forget it. And I mean, it's just thank you, Rose, for the hard work you do in these problems, because I mean, this goes both ways, and it's, yes, sex can be a solo sport, but a lot of times it can be a team sport, and thanks to these conversations at these places, 


I've got the year of cardiology chief in my center in Kaiser, and we're gonna be putting together an education program, or both, when you're having a partner in a person. That's so cool. That's so cool. 


Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for having me. My next session's starting from the 30 second. Thank you. 
