

So hello, Adanja. It works, I need to know. One more insight at the beginning. I'm counting pictures. And starting from masturbation, this is a cutting, evaded topic, and the discussion ranges from whether it's good or bad, or health in general, or sexual health, topics of guilt and shame, and how much masturbation might be too much, and what would be the effect of masturbation on relationships, if you're in a relationship, 


or if you're getting into a relationship. Both of them, whether I will benefit from abstinence or from the other type, what kind of techniques or toys I can use, and more fun. And from the historical perspective, the scientific debate changed a lot from the 18th century, when young boys were told that it's the masturbate or the likely to get tuberculosis, and when you're told you will be destroyed, 


of course. And on the other hand, in the 20th century, when Martin and Johnson came, they were starting teaching about that masturbation might be very healthy, and Martin may also help to pull results out of actual problems. 


So let's say this risk of hand used to masturbate. I'm sorry. The other question should be, is risk of hand used to masturbate with pleasure? And the second question would be, this risk of hand, if you would advise your patient to masturbate in order to help them with sexual problems. 


If I'm mistaken, I'm not sure if you know correctly. So we have to say something. quickly from studies from very different countries, and first of all, we can see that conservation is a common practice, not only for men, not only for popular media, but also for women, of course. 


And there is this high variety of political impact of our erotic activity on female sexuality, starting from the laws, the law development, whether your body or it works, how you can bring pleasure, and it may also facilitate a desire of satisfaction, and it might also impact a good micro-sexual function to evaluate it. 


And if you have the less guilt and shame, I have the higher likelihood that you would master that. This is a nice study from Norway, showing that, first of all, that being younger, more for American consumption, the higher sexual property was associated with increased masturbation pregnancy, but also that sexual distress is negative, but in general, there are images on the other hand associated with sexual dissatisfaction, 


which is not surprising. And in most interest, gender symbols were more likely to report more masturbation and being satisfied with sexually and satisfied from masturbation, but surprisingly, with higher education, you are much more likely to not report with men, but at the same time to be satisfied with it. 


Now, let's move to Finland, and there was a big online survey, more than 2,200 men and women, and what was found that there was better regarding function and sexual satisfaction for better male sexual function, but it was one in single men and women, and while even in that war in the relationship, it was not that way. 


And in fact, also, sexual compatibility and sexual dysfunction, in part, were associated with more frequent masturbation in both sexes. Even so, what I showed that in single men, masturbation is related with the marital function, but it's not so obvious in relationship, but probably it's because of the transference between the marriage and in-solo sexual activity to partner sexual activity, which is not always such an easy, 


especially if there's a huge high masturbation pregnancy, and I'm gonna talk about a little bit later. First of all, there's some evidence that a typical masturbation pattern can be associated with erectile dysfunction and delayed ejaculation, so all these patterns that are very much different from what the moods are having in partner sex. 


It might be a predictor of having problems with direct direction and generation in a partner's sense. Another study from Portugal on the part of this agreement that is trying a lot of data showing that 91% of women have to wait at some point in their lives. 


And the most common reasons were to achieve pleasure, or to cope with stress, or just to fall asleep easily. And the most common technique was internal stimulation, which is actually the most likely way that women can easily achieve organ. 


The other ways were using jet water or vibrator. And in reaching organ and having thought pleasure was quite common, because the past majority of them, when masturbating, were having problems with this. 


And also an observation was related to... who are more sexual under this, but also better around us and for gathering capacity in general. So how could female masturbation influence the Department of Sexual Activity? 


This study comes from the countries from USA, Hungary. It was serving over 2,000 women. And it was a great alignment of masturbation and Department of Sexual Activities was related to better response during the sex with partner and also hands for government pleasure. 


Now, let's move into Brazil. And it was a full study on an undergraduate female study showing that masturbation, if they considered masturbation important in their lives, they were also more likely to have better result in female sexual function in their sexual function. 


But on the other hand, if masturbation was attached to negative emotions, such as guilt or shame, then the day-to-day shift towards person has survived, but also in genital self-image questions. Masturbation, of course, can be also used as coping strategy. 


If you're having psychological distress, then you become aroused, you get an orgasm, and your orgasm is related with the state of relax and pleasures, and so on, like having other than real data to increase the amount of increased release of serotonin, vasopressin, or neopoies. 


So this is good for the living stress, of course. So my view, I mean, it's seen as a reliable coping strategy. On the other hand, women who use this strategy to overcome cruelty are not likely to be much more sensitive than the child's brain or the day-to-day required to release the stress. 


How about pornography? I think it's a difficult discussion on pornography. In fact, I believe there is no widely accepted definition of pornography at all. And if you look into, for instance, the definition from American psychological distinction, you will read that it is upright in printings of images with blood often exploited in sexual content, designed solely to arouse a sexual response and to satisfy the sexual charges. 


It doesn't sound too positive. From this, I think I will also read that there should be a distinction between erotic and pornography. And this is largely subjective, and it reflects a change in community standards. 


So the way you would see something, erotic and pornography, you could talk about it. It's largely related to the type of community we are in or at the cost of conduct. So these are multi-evident based definitions. 


And it's hard to get many, many misconceptions about pornography starting from... putting all into one side, so the whole porn is the same, it is vulgar, brutal, miscellaneous, et cetera, and it may cause sexual dysfunction, may help the brain to be predicted, may it destroy your brain, the spinal cord as well, I don't know. 


And, of course, it's something that is designed only for men, women don't watch porn at all, and it will cause sexual failure, and porn is just for this miserable food that we are not likely to find a partner at all. 


So, that's the message from the popular media. And this study comes from a department, our doctor called it, showing that even as much as one-fourth, or 25% of a young adult today below the age of 12, we already had contact with pornography, which is quite important, and we also put together with a lack of proper sexual education at the ages. 


And, on the other hand, you see the result of these reports from porn hub on some of the platform sites, and showing that it's not amazing, in fact, pornography is used, but in majority of society, what is by at least one third of population, one third of consumers of pornography are women, and in some countries, even up to a half. 


So, what people would watch porn, there are many, many reasons. Sexual arousal, so what is the definition? There's only one piece, I think I'll go from peruseity, and I use for exploration of sexual preferences, or maybe lack of sexual satisfaction, in part, sexual activities, so looking for more, and in the way of talking with boredom, to living stress, but also as a distraction for everyday problems, 


or kind of an escape in my eyes. The study from Sweden, so if people were asked how they perceive whether the use of porn will affect their sexual life, the vast majority of people come to think they can't affect you, they don't know if it affects or not their life. 


But if they have an opinion, so that 20% of men and 15% of women say that it has a quality of influence on their sexual life, and only below 5% say that it has a negative influence. And the negative outcomes were much more common if porn would consume more than 3 times a week. 


Some more people were less satisfied with their sexual life, or they had some sexual influence. So to start, please ask the question whether porn can harm sexual life. And this information will also spread around the media. 


especially about relationship failure to the core of the perfect illness of sexual dysfunction, which is kind of not evidence that you have noticed, such as pornography induced erectile dysfunction, or pornography-related endogen, or sperm, and sperm growth, which actually resembles this, what I was talking about in the beginning, of the same amount of disorder in this century, but in that case, before I get into diabetes, 


not about tuberculosis, so I'm trying out for you, but you can get further erectile dysfunction and infertility, because of which you're born. So these are the many misconceptions about it, but how would really one effect sexual development? 


So hypertension is our own cognitive absorption and motivation decline towards partner sex and reinforcing the sexual mist, since it brings double standards, which is true actually, and sexual convulsivity, that might be related more to sexual dysfunction and pornography itself. 


So what are the gender differences? Recurbing men, it was found that in those who are complaining about reduced sexual desire, might correlate it with the frequency of performance and defining practitioner-related risk, which decreased sexual desire, but how much is related with the use of porn, and how much is related, why do you use it? 


This is another topic I'm talking about. But studies on women here, they are on the safe side, because the studies revealed that using porn more frequently is rather related to increased sexual desire, also towards their partners and higher desire for sexual variety. 


that we are partners with persons that be allies from pornography, the acting group, or born in a real sexual script, are still highly different from the real sexual script and pornography may be also a children instead of sexual intercourse with a real partner for measure of more pressure and more morale. 


How this affects the transgender as according to the set of studies that have been shown, yes, and the theory is many studies on females and different sexual orientations, different sexual identities, and the important idea, the many issues such as preferred pornography content that being used for sexual script, the one that we are live, or the motivation to do more necessities for this type of issue. 


and also for emotional relations. I'm going to skip this slide a little bit. It's more about showing that there's no good evidence that pornography news would be related to earth and dysfunction in man in the samples from Italy, from Croatia, and also one who studied from USA, from three samples, actually, through the pro-sectional one, longitudinal, which was found that there's a little no evidence of an association between pornography use and EDE. 


While there is quite consistent evidence of association between self-reported programs used for pornography and erectile dysfunction, but this is a completely different topic. Okay, let's go further. 


Now, let's go to Australia. And how people are perceiving whether they are using porn normally or they are getting addicted. 84% of men and 54% of women said that they are using pornography in their lifetime. 


But in addition, porn were not more than 4% of men and 1% of women. And interestingly, predictors of this more problem of pornography use was the younger age being made up for religion to get a hand using internet frequently and coping with negative points of taste as well as their problems for novelty. 


The big phrase, sex addiction, into Google would give you more than 200 million different punches and give you a lot of information, mostly on EDM. Well, at the same time, WHO has reproduced the ICD-11 classification where composite sexual behavior disorder is being classified. 


So this is a huge step forward. or in understanding the idea of hypersexuality. And in the definition of multi-sexual behavior, you will see that it is mainly conceptualized as persistent pattern of failure to control. 


This in terms of the sexual resources and arguments, it is to neglecting other areas of life, and people usually get little or no satisfaction from this reality of sexual behavior. That's a very important part of the definition. 


In studies we did in Poland, we have seen that there is a difference into what is becoming compulsive in terms of sexuality. As much as 20% of men and more than 10% of women are in their building control of their sexual behavior. 


And women are much more comfortable on the reporting very much related with cultural issues and seeing perception of what's good, what's bad, and thinking about sex, but also the modern one that's doing control of the formography and masturbation. 


Well, but if you look at the large status, you can divide four users into four categories. The first one, and the biggest one actually, is the individuals who use the relative use of pornography, but they don't experience control problems, and these are more than 70% of all users, while the much lower group is that these individuals who are using it frequently are identifying problematic pornography users, 


and these actually are our patients at times. Yeah, but there's still even a bigger category of this high frequency, but no problematic use of it, probably related with a higher sexual desire group. And the fourth category is very important in the office, which was for watching pornography early, but they were hardly too best about it. 


They are probably not sexually impulsive, but they are getting this morality congruent about watching porn, and they will need a completely different approach in the conventional setting. At this point in your frequency, you really wonder, the mental analysis is expanded that if you have problematic pornography users, the more frequent you use it, the more negative outcomes you use, but it is for problematic pornography users. 


At the same time, this is one of the most peripheral symptoms of the PPU. And you would find even very high percentages. There should be diagnosis regarding possible sex addiction or so. But these are not really evidence. 


And probably, these are not true data. Why? We don't understand property female couples is sexual behavior property. Because in the vast majority of research for conducting on men. And then it's also this double-time not stigmatization of high women sexual behavior among women. 


So if you have to keep in mind, let's say, diagnosis. And this is a very, very nice study. It comes from 42 countries. I built a computer from Hungary and now I'm in Canada. In this lab sample of over 80,000 of people, it was found that using different measures of problematic pornography use, it was on the rise of it. 


used ranged from 3% to 16% in different countries, with 6.2% of men and 0.72% of women. And in fact, the highest privileges of problematic foreign aircraft use were found in those countries who were the most conservative and had the most negative attitudes for modern aircraft use and masturbation. 


So definitely, they are also a cultural factor behind them. We have to understand that when investigating the people who are coming to us, just in the day, they're going to control masturbation, pornography, and all the other things that they did. 


Women who are sitting hard because of the CPU, they are looking for, mainly because of this negative symptoms that they did. It's a different problem between men and women. Women are more likely to have sexual compulsive periods when interrupted with controlled periods, apparently because of social norms. 


And this is the fourth option, and the 10 need to go more pages in sexual behavior processes. But is uncontrolled sexual activity always bad? If you go to New Zealand, you'll find that uncontrolled sexual behavior is reported by 13% of men and 7% of women. 


But there is a just minority of them who perceive it that is disturbing their class or maybe not always lack of control, is perceived by the family. And that, OK, I have to finish in two minutes. OK, studies from plants showing that different domains of CFTD actually might be related with different alcohol outcomes, so it is more about sex. 


audience and doctors, you might have better higher sexual life, but also easier to controller. But here, if you are much more affected by negative consequences and this does affect you, it might be much more related to sexual hypo function. 


So for the period of time to fill out slides about how the problematic monograph use would change the sensitivity towards sexual activity, whether we are in more sensitivity towards neurotic contents and the sensitivity towards sexual partner, there were studies that we performed on men samples and people who were the most responsible for sexual behavior disorder compared with the general population. 


What we found in functional brain imaging that these CSPD individuals, mainly related to problematic hormones, have much increased activation of the substrate, which is part of the brain reward system. 


But not for us rewards, it's not that we're confused or that we're something that we're ready to prepare for the reward, it's very important. Because technically, what have we to do? The cues are, when you, for instance, feel alone, you're at your home, and your computer, or you regret, or you feel anxious, it's as if the mood state or affective state that we're much more likely that we're engaged in conversation on behavioral behavior as a coping strategy. 


How about women? Women, keep in mind, they don't get sampled. They're much higher representation of casual sex and on-board casual sex activities. In passing, we did a similar procedure. What was found that, yes, in the CDC, women also there was increased reaction in the ventral streptom, also in the amixa, towards the cues of the erotic reward. 


But at the same time, there was not a discrepancy between wanting and liking. And so the reactions were also seen in the four erotic rewards of this happening different pathways. So as you can see, this is quite kind of a complex topic, whether this is normal sexual activity, or positive, or problematic, or whether this is kind of a mental disorder. 


It is now diagnosed in the ICD-11. And I would like just to encourage you to read this paper, which is a more holistic approach to convulsive sexual behavior than we need. And umbrella of the ICSM. And my final take-home messages are that we will receive a decreasing stigma of human restoration these days. 


We can see they are complex and put into association between masturbation practice and mental dysfunction as well as body image and emotional relation. We have noted evidence of so-called pornography in the sexual dysfunction effects in both genders and the fragments in the form used of masturbation might be relevant in cases of different styles for partner sexual activity or identity in men. 


There is not evidence for women. Regarding problematic pornography use of CFT, the date of the economy, all results also in the relationship problems and also in sexual satisfaction of the character of the definition. 


And quantity in frequency and form used might be sent on severity of the view, but it is not problematic to them and also in the view, it is the most peripheral feature. Hyper-transitization, there was a curious approach through all the emails with CFT has been non-fear. 


There is no fear to speak on speaking walking and biking in case of women. So these are different parts of it. and developed that it is very important to raise the awareness about the problem of informography but at the same time without creating this moral finding or stigma of informography used in general. 


Thank you very much. 
