

My name is Dr. Steven Anderson. I'm a assistant professor in the College of Nursing at the UT Health Science Center in Memphis, DC. I'm joined by Dr. Cynthia Ramon, who is a little introduction to my co-moderator, sexual medicine and practice at the Chicago Bay Area. 


So we are going to be moderating today's symposium, again titled, Complexes of Trauma and the Intersexual and Sexual Health Theater. And so I want to provide a bit of disclaimer and notice. This session is going to be vitally important for our understanding of the ways in which the traumas that our patients, our participants, and we ourselves as clinicians and scientists navigate traumatic experiences. 


But there will be conversations of sexual violence, chronic conditions, trafficking. And so I just want to create that disclaimer for those individuals who may need to prepare themselves for what may be difficult conversations. 


I would hope that you will still be able to participate, but just plain equal, anyone know that that will be some conversations that happen today. If you need to avail yourself to the back of the resources or just time and space and stuff. 


I have the pleasure of introducing our first three speakers. I'm getting older and I've been adjusting my glasses because I can't see anything. Okay, forgive me. I was like, I was like, what are you doing? 


I was like, I was saying, buy anything. No, excuse me. I was trying to hold it together. I was like, what is the word? Dr. Joanne Michelle Martin is a licensed physical therapist for over 16 years of experience specializing in orthopedic and pelvic floor therapy. 


Additionally, she is a birth postpartum doula and certified sex counselor. Dr. Martin is the owner of JMM Health Solutions in the Metro Atlanta area, focused on pelvic, perinatal, and sexual health. She is a mentor to many healthcare professionals both clinically and in business practice. 


She has shared her experience and activities in many domains including industry events such as the APTH private practice section conference, University guest lecturer, National and International Talks, workshops, webinars, leaders for clinicians, and other stakeholders. 


She serves as a member of the Southeastern Telehealth Resource Center, the Telehealth Task Force since 2019 to assist in language reading regarding telehealth and telemedicine. And so she is here to provide thoughts, expertise around trauma and birth. 


So if you all are an Ishwish family, can warmly welcome Dr. Martin. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Zagie. Let's start with my little raspy voice. Where are all my first time Ishwish attendees like me? 


Yay! OK. I'm not wondering if there's any more. All right. So today I'm going to be speaking on trauma and birth. And I don't think that we oftentimes associate the two. And at first, the vertical is something that's very near and dear to my heart, for sure. 


We're doing a lot of work here in the Metro-Atlantic area. But at first, when I go into the definition of trauma, we typically hear of trauma. We think of big things, right? And the American Psychiatric Association characterizes trauma as exposure to actual or directed death, serious injury, sexual violence, cyber-experience with any of these things, witness in it, or someone close to you telling you that these things have occurred. 


And so again, when we hear of it, we think of the big things. The DSM-5, similarly, kind of describes post-traumatic stress syndrome, which is something that we typically see in the birth world a lot, as very similar to this, again, exposure to actual or directed death, serious injuries, sexual violence, direct experience, witness in it, or learning about traumatic events, experienced by a close family member. 


So we get this idea of trauma to be this extremely huge thing, and oftentimes when it comes to birth, we're wondering if the trauma happened before birth, right? So are they coming in? Is this someone who was subject to sexual trauma? 


Were they raped? Were they violated? And now they have got to live with the effects of this going into a birth experience, and we know that something like that can then lend itself to prolonged labor, increased risk of intervention, and things of that sort. 


This is something that started after birth, right? Are we dealing with the effects of a birth experience that did not go according to plan? Are we dealing with the physiological injuries that happened from birth? 


Are we dealing with psychological trauma and PTSD that happened as a result of birth? And so these are some of the things that we really need to consider as to what's happening. And we know that when we look at trauma, this can impact sexual health. 


We know that, you know, it's a struggle about the baby office. selling about paint, there's a whole lot of stuff going on. I think Phoenix Atomic, that's for a reason, because they come in and they're like, yeah, I got this paint, what's really happening? 


And then they start to unload. And it's like, there you go. So again, when we think about trauma, I wanted to just talk about a couple of articles. When I was kind of preparing for this, the first one's talk is a study where they interviewed, they had 1,507 first time on this. 


And they followed up with them at three, six, nine, and 12. And we know that does not really happen. Six weeks, see you next year. But they followed up with them at three, six, nine, and 12 months. At three months, 89% of these women were complaining of some sort of sexual issue. 


They had pain, they had vaginal brightness, lack of lubrication, lack of desire, lack of interest. Makes sense, it's three months, they're probably not sleeping a lot, there's bubbles of other things going on. 


At six months, 51% of them were still dealing with issues. And then at 12 months, we still had about 30% of individuals who were still having complaints. Again, one of the things that this article brought up, which is something that we don't focus a lot on in just in OB-GYN spaces, those who have a cesarean, according to this article, has similar or higher odds of sexual issues. 


But the general conception that most people have is, well, you have a cesarean, you're fine. Nothing down there is effective. You won't have any pelvic floor issues. And if you're in here and you had a c-section, you know, they're right. 


But again, this is the message that's being sent to people or that people are hearing when it comes to birth and what they should expect, right? And this is an abdominal surgery. What other surgery did we just send people home and say, all right, well, let's see the level, right? 


The incision was about this, God bless you, you're doing great. Go raise the child. Oh, by the way, don't move more than that. and the car seat booster. So again, there's a lot going on with their stress out, they've no idea what to do, there's a lot of tension associated with that. 


Another article looks at prevalence of risk factors associated, again, with sexual health issues with first-time moms at six and 12 months. And they were aiming for the 32 months this time of the study. 


Again, they did some surveys, three, six, nine, and 12 months. Then again, they're seeing similar concerns. There's a loss of interest, lack of lubrication, painful intercourse, and then here's the why. 


Instrument-assisted deliveries, perineal laceration, all of these other things. And again, these are things that have a common place from being addressed in OVI spaces, primary care spaces, and things of that sort. 


Again, people don't know what they know and know, so if they are hearing that's normal, they're very unlikely to ask. They're very unlikely to say, hey, I've got this issue. And so they were also finding that with those individuals who had third-degree perineal lacerations, who were also breastfeeding, who also had a preexisting history of dysbrugia, those individuals had more likelihood of persistent sexual issues. 


So here comes that genocid urinary syndrome, a lactation, not menopause, but a lactation because we know what happens with estrogen levels and at that point in time. But these moms don't know. We know, because we're professionals and we deal with this. 


They have no clue, and no one's telling them. So they have no idea how to be aware of this. And again, they go from office to office. You're fine. It's okay. It'll pass, and this is what we're hearing. 


So now it's, what's wrong with me? Why is this happening? Relationships, the strength, all the things. The next major issue that I wanted to cite that we know in our country, it's really, really rampant. 


Obstetric racism, it happens, right? It's something that nobody wants to talk about because everybody feels uncomfortable, but we gotta talk about it, right? CDC just released something about four weeks ago that says maternal mortality is increasing in the network, except for black women, where it's still three and four times higher than their counterparts, their population counterparts. 


And this is problematic because we know that individuals are going into these spaces already traumatized. Here in the state of Georgia, we've got 76 counties that do not have the OBGYN, which means that these women have no choice. 


They don't have to pay for the litter because, you know, that line is not Georgia, but once you be here, God bless you, good luck. So they don't have to pay for the litter, right? So they've gotta go to the next county owner. 


They've gotta go to County Silver. They've gotta take what they can get. And so when they get there, what are they getting, especially in more rural environments? They might eat, you know, with clinicians that. 


are not aware, they're not first, they're not you guys. So they're not getting someone who will ask them the questions, who will guide them the way that they need to be guided. They may be subject to a lot of institutional racism, and that's happening a lot in our rural communities. 


And so again, these individuals are facing a lot of stigma, a lot of discrimination, there's horror and forth between the provider and the patient, and again, these types of things lend themselves to, again, increasing anxiety during labor. 


Now we've got long labor, now we've got increased risk of insurance being used in birth, and all these other things, and then it's like, okay, we have a couple of things going, and that's it. And we're not doing anything as far as follow-up here with a lot of these individuals. 


So that kind of brings me to my big T, little T, right? Again, we think trauma, we think the big T. They felt, they had an accident. The phone dropped on me, the hospital said something major happened. 


We don't think about mobility, all the little micro-discles. So I go into the doctor's office and I frighten him, and I be a good lord. And I be a justice. And all these other things. Or, in the post-partum period, I attempt to house-ass that first time because it's six weeks, somebody said, oh, this is a great idea, you'll be fine. 


Right? You'll be fine. They didn't even say, hey, use the moon. They didn't think you'd be fine. And you go track for the first time and you're like, oh, no. And then he gives you that look and you're like, so. 


Not giving in. But then you try again, and it still hurts. And you try again and you're like, what is wrong with me? So now we have a lot of internalization of these feelings, but again, it's not getting any better. 


If you're thinking about what strain is this causing on these individuals, what is happening in these relationships, what is the social burden, what is the relationship burden, what is the financial burden? 


Because now they've got to go find all people that can help them, one, to let them know this is not in your head, but two, to fix the problem. And so it takes a serious toll on these individuals. Again, most of you are my therapist in the room, and that's therapist. 


Okay, so I know you guys are all the ones that have the book, The Body Needs a Score. Maybe the rest of you do, but I know you guys got it. But again, in that book, it really goes into talking about and really giving the language for the significant major traumas versus those repeated insults that kind of happen that we take for granted and we don't even see them. 


We don't even recognize that they're there. And then all of a sudden it's like, why are they presented like this? Why is this your complaint? There's nothing major that happened. Well, the image shows that nothing is going on. 


So you must be fine, right? There's nothing there. And again, it's just adding to their presentation. It's just adding to what they're going through. Again, for myself, As a pelvic floor PT, seeing these individuals in the office, I'm seeing a lot of the postesarian. 


I'm seeing a lot of the shoulder dystoches. I'm seeing some of the inversion surgeries. I went in, and I was going to have the vaginal delivery. We don't know what happened, and I ended up having to have a C-section. 


There was no sort of conversation in between me getting there, and when I had the C-section, I saw what was going on. And so I'm seeing a lot of that. But I've also seen a lot of the things that people are oftentimes overlooking, like the nerve injuries. 


And we in this space, we know about prenatal nerve injuries, right? And sometimes we can get compression of that nerve during birth. Again, instrument-assisted births, prolonged labor, and that can impact sensation in the general region. 


That can cause pain. And so we can think, okay, yes, they'll have pain. I can see that. That makes sense. But what about the people that are coming to me six months, 12 months up? And they're only coming to me because they're walking, buddy. 


And so they keep telling the doctor about this hip pain, this hip pain that they have. And so they got a hip pain, so nobody asked them about this, that stuff. And we'll go see the therapist. And they're coming to me, and they say, hey, my hip hurts. 


And I can see them walking. And they've got this crazy date. And so now I'm like, hey, by the way, tell me a little bit more about what's going on. Let's talk about sex. Let's talk about all these other things. 


And then they just break down, again, possibly mess. Because then they start to break down. Because you're the first person who has asked me about this. And oftentimes, these individuals are also dealing with pelvic floor concerns. 


Because we've got nerves that traverse these areas that are impacted their presentation, maybe a hip issue. But everything else that's going on is also sexually related. So we're not asking you questions, right? 


We also think about the gliobankenoma degenerate frontal nerve concerns that might happen from a cesarean birth. And nobody is asking them about sex. Is it painful? Are you having any sex? What does sex look like for you? 


You know, are you having any concerns? Nobody's asking them anything. But now they're having sensory issues. Well, it just doesn't feel the same. Or I'm having pain. And most importantly, they can't even get into the positions that have sex. 


Because they haven't heard it. They have to move the hip. Everything hurts. It's hurting when I feel it. So again, are we asking them the questions? It's never going to be, hey, God, by the way, sex hurts. 


How do we decide? We all know that's not what's happening. They're never coming into your office being that transparent, right? We know we've got to dig a little bit deeper. And so these are things that we need to be mindful of when we're seeing these patients. 


Again, we think about some of those bony COVID issues. That might happen. They end up with, if you extend this as separation. You've got a big baby, and we had a shoulder dyscosia. Maybe we're having some sort of prosthetician because we've got dyslocators that still loves prosthetics. 


And we can come in again. Okay, there's pain there. I could see how that might hurt. But again, perineal trauma. They're not trying to do anything. Everything hurts. They've got superficial dysparemia. 


They might have deep dysparemia. And again, we're not asking them these questions. If they had an instrument-assisted delivery, that's the number one reason for a limited anti-evulsion injury. And so now, this person might end up with some roll-outs. 


Are we asking them about sex? Are we talking to them about these things? All, oftentimes, what's happening is, we're getting them to the cliff, the cliff edge, with birth education. And then we walk away and go to see it. 


And there's the cliff edge, right? And so, again, one of my colleagues, I heard him give a talk, a really amazing talk, and she said, this whole hell is full of, we're not talking about the whole sort of what we're really talking about, right? 


So again, we've got to make sure that we are recognized as a sexual assault in and out so many different aspects of our lives. And when we think about the post-mortem, when we think about birth trauma, that needs to be a part of the education they're getting. 


It's like the book, you never read the book and not read the beginning or the end, right? Like why don't we do child work with education if we don't need to talk about freedom here in Wilfrid? Or expectations at the end of these periods? 


We're not going to read a book at that point. Why are we treating patients in this way? And these people are experiencing these issues and concerns, what are we doing? And what are we changing? And so, in terms of how we could start looking at this, and how we need to start directing our colleagues, so I hope that when you guys go back, all your fourth-old friends, right? 


All the hip doctors and the fat doctors, they only have some serious conversations with them. And let them know that this is something they need to be talking about, because oftentimes they're not, okay? 


And the primary care doctors love in pieces, but we need to talk about sex. They should not come in your office and you might even ask them, hey, how's this part of your life? It's a normal day-to-day function. 


It's a normal part of their life and we really need to be concerned. So, when we're thinking about what we need to do as clinicians, again, we use the term trauma-informed care, but what does that really mean? 


Are we creating safe spaces for them to unload? Are we creating safe spaces for them so that they're not getting re-traumatized in offices? Where the way that we're communicating with them is not triggering to them? 


Are we doing comprehensive assessments that include some sort of sexual health assessment? And if you're a clinician and you're listening and you are not yet comfortable with that, just... to slip like one of the forms, you know, the female sexual merchandise or something in their density form and just let them answer the questions. 


It's a nice little segue to start having a conversation. Right, so again, we need to start making this a little bit more comprehensive. And what that does is it helps us to meet them where they're at. 


Like, hey, God, you know, we try to have sex and, you know, it was really painful. Talk to me a little bit more about that. You know, how's lubrication? Anyway, yeah, it's a little dry. I'm gonna have you try using a lubricant. 


Seems a very simple question, but I guarantee you they will tell you no. They will tell you no. And then you can start having that wonderful conversation and pull out all the nice samples. Let me tell you, a lube is my thing. 


So we got different types of lubes, and see, you know, and you show them what they are, and this is silicone, and I like to just drag through white hair conditioner. You know, so the water base of that conditioner you put in your hair feels good, but when you wash it out, the slip is gone, versus like the silicone-based lubricant, and every woman in here knows when you find a good conditioner, you're safe with, 


right? So that's that conditioner. You wash it out, but then you get hair so it feels good. So you want to make sure that they understand things like this, and that you're talking to them about things like this and just meeting them where they're at. 


And that also sets you up for really good collaborative care, because now you know what's going on with them, you can get them to the people that they need to go to. And then we can continue to educate and empower them in the best ways possible. 


This is what we need to do for our patients, even though they have birth, but we really need to start adding more post-garding visits, because six weeks is not where it's at. It's really not. So if you're fully done in here, I challenge you, six months and nine months follow-ups will be really nice this way. 


But again, I challenge you to really start to look out for these patients. If we're following the term of our tally up to 12 months post-partum, why are we not following up with these people during that time? 


It doesn't make sense. So I want to thank you guys for listening. So we're going to open up the floor for questions after each speaker. No, I'm just joking at the end. Thank you. I'm a little tired. Let me give you some grace here. 


Yes, I can't remember. I think I'm going to carry her off. Okay. That was not a joke, was it? My next speaker. Erin Sullivan Wagner is a survivor of anal cancer. As a result of her radiation treatment, she experienced sexual health side effects that went untreated for several months. 


Because there was no process in place to address sexual health concerns or refer patients timely, keyboard timing, the damage caused by radiation became permanent. After her cancer experience, she started a life coaching business for patients. 


After Cancer EAT, coaching on relationships and intimacy challenges. Her focus shifted when she began collaborating with clinicians who were trained patients with sexual health concerns and for grant funding she started the All of Me Project, developing educational resources for providers and care teams related to addressing sexual health in cancer care. 


For more information visit www.fema.gov She has been a collaborator, developing workshops, courses, resources, and educational materials. And after Cancer. Inc. has transitioned to a non-profit in 2022, where Erin starts as the executive director. 


So if you all please join me in giving a very warm welcome. As you look at me, look at this side of my face, because I have that red line there. It feels tiny. Thank you for having me today. I just want to say one disclosure slide, as she said. 


I am the executive director of After Cancer Inc. and is a 501c3 organization. And this is my story. When I shared this story over the last 17 years, I've never really used the word trauma to describe my experience until recently. 


I'm healed, I'm cancer free, and at the time I didn't lose my hair, didn't take much time off work, had a wonderful support system, and my experience launched a more purposeful life. You couldn't see then, and you wouldn't know from the outside that the scars of that experience have impacted most areas of my life. 


It's difficult to tell this story without emotion. I was diagnosed with anal cancer in January 2008. In a few weeks leading up to it, I had noticed there was blood on the tissue after a bowel movement and once saw blood dripping from my body. 


Through a colonoscopy, they diagnosed it as cancer, so they were confused as to the cancer type. Was it rectal, advanced cancer, or just anal cancer? over the next 48 hours I had multiple scans and exams and in one of those appointments the colorectal surgeon said it's anal cancer you know I used to see this cancer only in gay men now I see it in women your age she didn't offer much more than that except I remember hearing the term HPV and I assumed it was related to anal sex my mind was spinning as she continued to speak for an hour long afterwards I don't remember any of it I was cloudy and numb remembering a night in my 20s when my boyfriend and I explored having anal sex and oh my gosh how would I explain this to my mother though that didn't make sense I didn't know how to ask one single question Though I had never heard of anal cancer, 


I was relieved that the diagnosis was bad. That it was an advanced cancer. That it was stage one anal cancer, 91% survival. It was almost nothing. It was cancer with a small C. My treatment was five weeks of radiation and one week of chemotherapy on either end. 


Listed as a side effect was sexual dysfunction. Though it wasn't my list of concerns, I asked about it. Wondering if I would learn or if that applied to anal cells. It didn't apply to me and I wanted to tell someone. 


Why was I feeling so much shame about it? I was told three times, three separate positions, a gynecologic oncologist, a colorectal surgeon, and a radiation oncologist that sexual dysfunction wouldn't apply to me. 


Because I was young, healthy, sexually active, and my treatment didn't include internal radiation rods. And like millions of newly diagnosed patients, it's not really the last thing on this list. The battle ahead to fight the cancer was the only thing I cared about. 


I had a great support system, an adobe husband, six years into the second marriage. Wonderful kids and a blended family ages 17 to 12. And my friends and relatives put me first. I did well through chemo and radiation for the first four weeks before my skin and body broke down and I was hospitalized for a week. 


At the end of treatment though, I was told that my treatment was successful. I was cancer free. We were so elated. I felt like everything good in life is ahead. My first appointment post-treatment was in May. 


I was examined and given the green light to go back to my life, including having penetrated sex. The only warning was to go slow and use lubricant. I was apprehensive my body was weak, my entire pelvic area, especially the genital area, was so, so tender. 


But we attempted it, of course, that night. We went slow to start and I think the episode lasted 10 seconds. The pain I felt was immediate and severe. I thought the area must not be completely healed. 


We waited another week, got my body stronger, and tried again. There was no way not to show the severe pain I felt as he attempted penetration. It felt like he was hitting a wall, like trying to pierce through an area with no opening. 


The episode didn't last long, and we were both concerned about what could be wrong. Every attempt was met with the same pain, the same result. We tried different positions, me on top thinking that I might have more control to navigate the pain. 


All but the same result, excruciating pain that showed on my face and in my body. As I tried to catch my breath and free myself from the pain. I felt safer on the bottom, with my hands positioned on either side of my cubic bone, laying against my pelvic area and my upper thighs. 


There is a collision barrier, I guess. Even when I tried, when I was asked could I remove my hands, I couldn't. My mind would move better. I saw my medical oncologist in June, and I explained the issue as best I could, described how it felt. 


I wished I had a camera so that I could explain it better as to what was actually happening. The resident and my physician had never heard of these side effects, chopped it up to, you know, cancer is rare. 


I'm quick to say that chemo had not caused the issues and then referred me to radiation oncology. I saw them in July. Between referrals, we continue to attempt penetrative sex, always ending the same way with blood and tears. 


My appointment with the radiation team went much the same way as with medical oncology. They also didn't understand why penetrative sex would be difficult. They acted like they were hearing it for the first time. 


They referred me to the Baltimore Disease Clinic and an referral to a gynecologist. Another month went by, and it was ours. My gynecologist examined me, saw a web of scarring and vagina. She thought maybe that was the wall that I felt when we attempted intercourse. 


So she scheduled a minor procedure in September to remove the scar, telling me, use it or lose it, as the scar tissue will return if not kept open. I was also finally given dilator tools in estrogen cream moisturizer to use four to five times per week. 


The dilator tools were graduated in size. I started with a smaller one, laying on my back, taking a deep breath in, and on the exhale, inserting the dilator once comfortably inside, moving it around, and applying gentle pressure backward and forward, and against the opening. 


After three to five minutes, I slowly removed it and attempted the next size of telling myself to keep breathing through the pain. The goal was to stretch the area to at least the size to accommodate a penis being inserted. 


My husband's penis wasn't very big, and so I thought that was going for me in cases from the story. And I was given another referral to the pelvic floor therapist to need the muscles inside the vaginal walls to ensure that there was indeed room to accommodate a penis. 


There was. I did this for months. And I insisted that we continue attempting penetrative sex after every pelvic floor therapy equipment. At some point, my husband had to be convinced to even take part. 


His words, I hate being the source of your pain, and frankly, there is just nothing arousing about this anymore. I'm not interested. So me begging him to stay interested in causing what I knew would be excruciating pain put me at long-time fault. 


We disagreed on whether each attempt at the penetrative sex was more successful than the other. Each time, I cannot launch the pain, as best I could, on my face, but couldn't control the recoiling and involuntary movements of my body to escape the pain. 


I chased every treatment suggesting that inserting a dilator and applying pressure against the vaginal opening until it tore and bled, with the hope of making the opening wider and then trying to survive the pain of a penis rubbing against that open soul. 


That only happened once, I thought it might pass out. At an appointment at least two years later, still chasing every possibility. treatment there. They prescribed zags to take 45 minutes before attempting intercourse. 


It was after that appointment that my husband asked if I thought my care team thought the pain was all in my hand. I asked him if he believed that the pain was in my hand, just in my hand, and he said I wonder about it. 


I mean, think about it, Karen. They told you you wouldn't have any issues. They've never heard of this problem before. They've tried numerous treatments, nothing they can do about it, and none were prescribing an anti-anxiety medication. 


As you might imagine, the conversation ended abruptly. I felt anger and sadness and defeat. I continue to chase every treatment option available with the result always being the same. Years later, I learned the reason, you know things didn't feel anything. 


The scar tissue around the hymenal brain had built up so thick, it was irreversible in the time it took before I was treated. A gynecologist in a sexual health clinic held my hand in hers. After a coming, I came and said, I'm sorry, you just waited too long. 


I needed those dialerator tools, the estrogen cream, the referral to the gynecologist, the belly floor therapist, immediately. I hadn't waited. I had asked for help in early June. This could have been prevented. 


If there had been a process in place to screen for sexual health concerns, if they had asked or listened to previous patients, if they had cared about me beyond cancer, about the life I needed to return to. 


What my husband and I didn't see happening, through all those months and years, was that the data that you were seeing was to our relationship. Penetrating sex was an important part of our connection, but for cancer. 


It ended up affecting all areas of our relationship, like kissing and flirting and lingering looks and touching in general change. Covering it back, it all led to fewer times alone, fewer weekends away. 


and vacations, politics, trust, and eventually fidelity. And we didn't see it falling apart. We needed the help and we needed God's help. We needed to rewrite our sexual script. Oh, we didn't even know. 


Why is it so hard to talk about sex with a person you sleep with? We knew each other's schedules. We ate dinner together every night. And we attended all the kids' activities. And we slept in the same bed. 


And we didn't have sex. And there wasn't intimacy. Physical promotion. And years later, when we realized all those lost, we didn't have the energy to put it back together. We didn't have hot return. We separated for nearly four years, eventually making a pact to each other. 


At first with the hope that we'd find our own connection. But eventually, all of those old wounds that hadn't healed followed back up to the surface. His unresolved hurt and anger, and my unresolved hurt and anger. 


And there was infidelity. Though we continue to work through the challenges it brings to a partnership. And when I am fully honest with myself and acknowledge that dating again seemed so daunting, I couldn't have penetrative sex. 


I felt damaged. Who would want that? We eventually got back together. And I think it's my only regret. Because trust, once lost, is nearly impossible to bring back the same way. I felt broken, betrayed by my body, my care team, eventually my husband. 


And when we broke. So I swear that that's so hard. of that story that I'm sure that you may have had a hard time hearing some of it. But it's so important to know that my story isn't really all that uncommon. 


We just don't talk to our patients in the right. And they need help. What went wrong for me is on this chart. What shouldn't happen is on the top line or on the bottom line. What didn't happen is on the top. 


I wasn't treated for almost six months. I shouldn't have been treated by all of those referral agencies for all of those specialists within six months. I'm going to try to go faster because I'm going to try to speak. 


So this is a slide, actually, that was developed by Dr. Sarah Shaker. She was part of a work group that I formed when I started collaborating with decisions on what are some of the interventions for sexual health patients and what can we do about it to get more education out there for providers and care teams. 


Not only does this show you that sexual dysfunction is really a web, especially for females, but it's important to know that it's not just function, that it really has to do with the sexual response cycle, and so much impacts that, like audio image and low libido, and actually even just speech and communication difficulties, and of course the real loss of limb or hair or fertility all impact that sexual response cycle. 


So in this project that the all of you project was noted, we did form focus groups to understand what are the barriers to care, why isn't this being talked about, and so this is what we had learned just to properly identify some of them. 


Most of it has to do with patient flow, people don't have time, they also don't have the knowledge and confidence to know what to say, what the message should say, what patients need to hear, which is why we've done more, and I'll just talk for a minute and then I'll get on the stage. 


What we did was develop an implementation framework containing three components, normalizing the conversation you got into it first, setting expectations and then referring patients out in a timely manner. 


Our services include workshops, courses, and a library of patient educational materials. These patient educational materials, this is the list of topics that we provide. Some of them are from my life coaching days of understanding what patients need. 


from a navigating intimacy after cancer and some are actually from institutions that have asked us to create them for a specific patient population or just what they feel they need, don't have time to talk about, but if they have the literature for their patients that would be helpful. 


So if you do these both as a hard copy, you know, this is the brochure that I'll show you in a second, but hard copy and also you can do it through a digital download. So that's the brochure. The brochure is really normalizing the conversation. 


It's just a high level brochure meant for new patient folders, but also as a communication aid when you're delivering what we call a 30 second patient message, which is important to normalize the conversation. 


Also important for acknowledging confidence in talking to patients is to have a referral program to know where your specialness are that you're going to refer patients to. This takes a little bit of work. 


You've got to know who wants your patients, what kind of, you know, who's successful treating patients, who wants them, what are their hours that we have, lots of ideas of how you can work with mental health therapists to create something for the office to have a roadmap for their providers in the clinic to know where to send their own patients. 


If you want to talk about this further, if you want to know any more about our training, you can contact me at errandandaftercancer.co. There is also a needs assessment that a scientific researcher from the University of Cincinnati was part of our thought meter group and we created the needs assessment and it really is to find out, even within your own clinic, what are providers doing today? 


Are people, do they have resources? Are they giving patients resources? Do they have access to them? Do they know where to find them? Just to get an idea, it's a place to start. And that really is the point. 


Start somewhere, for your patients. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to thank you for your willingness to be vulnerable and share your hearts both physical, emotional, and otherwise. 


For the edification of us as humans, as clinicians, as researchers, and as individuals. community members, we are better for having one witness to what you experience, and thank you. Thank you. If you all please join me in welcoming our next speaker, Tammy Rosenblum. 


She is an individual and a couple therapist, and currently certified as a sex therapist and sex therapist supervisor at the International Associates of Psychosexual Therapy. She is a co-author of Dr. 


David McPher of the book, I Am For My Beloved, A Guide to Enhanced Intimacy for married couples. She is the author of more than 40 journal articles and several books on trauma, sexual pain disorders. 


sexual health, unconscionating marriage, and sexuality, and Judaism, and she is a co-host of Intimate Judaism, a podcast with the Radleyes.com. Please help me welcome Tallye Zoucon Kaye, she can take me to the front, and I'll get to Erin. 


Judith Herman writes in Trauma Recovery that the path to trauma healing is to tell your story. So I want to firstly thank you for allowing all of us to bear with me to your story. And I'm going to ask you all to do the same for me in those next 20 minutes. 


First of all, I'm really, really happy and really honored to be back here at this wish. I've been here before, and I've talked about trauma before, but it's been a while, and for me and for many people, there's been before and after since October 7. 


So I'm not exactly the same person that I was, but I am happy to be here. I want to just start out. I want to start out just by getting a couple things out of the way. So trigger warnings, this is a session on trauma. 


You can see it's deep, it's tough, and it's also on war, so that's hard too. So please pay attention to yourselves, to your reactions, ground yourself if you need, and be mindful of what you're doing in this talk. 


I do also want to state and acknowledge that this conflict is painful and difficult for everybody, at all sides. And I didn't come here with that. with information about the other sides. I'm here to talk about my experience personally, clinically, and to bring some of our research, and to talk about the impact of the war in Israel on relationships, on intimacy, and on sexuality. 


I love my nose upstairs, so I'm gonna just talk for a minute. On October 7th, as many of you know, Hamas militants, in addition to sending a barrage of rockets to cities all over Israel, also infiltrated cities, and also entered into people's homes, and they killed murdered people. 


Men, women, children, they took hostages, they injured thousands. And we still have, we have 1,200 people who were killed on that day. We have another 1,800 dead. I think we have 850 soldiers dead. And tens of thousands in rehab centers still recovering from injuries. 


We've been grieving, burying our dead, grieving our losses, funerals, shivas. It's been a very, very difficult 16, 17 months now. So with all of this going on, you might be wondering, why am I talking about sex? 


Well, that usually gets a laugh when it's not a sex conference. But since it is, you probably know this already. In the midst of death and grief and loss, we seek vitality, and sex is about life. Sex is about connection. 


It's about restoring intimacy, especially when our most intimate places were penetrated. And so we need to be able to reach out. We need to reach out in order to form connections with those that we can feel safe with after going through something in which we feel so unsafe. 


So sex is about pleasure, also resilience, and post-traumatic growth. And it's about the repair of the nation. It's not new for the Jewish people. In fact, sex is a way to procreate, and procreation was a goal for the Jews after the Holocaust. 


And there apparently is a making move going on now in Israel as well. And to illustrate this, I'm gonna leave a couple of quotes from the Holocaust literature. This is from Night by Elie Wiesel. They must have been 20 or so. 


They hugged and kissed each other, keeping their distance from the others. From Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Fringle. The salvation of man is through love and in love. I understood how a man who has nothing left in this world might still know bliss, yet only for a brief moment, in the contemplation of his beloved. 


And finally, the two of us, in the confusion, clapped each other's hand. It was the only gesture of love that remained to us. That is from the Survival Announcements by Primo Lin. So, shortly after the war began, my therapist colleagues and I began discussing what we were seeing in our clinics. 


The entire therapy community was focused on early intervention, particularly amongst the trauma therapists, and I also do a lot of trauma therapy. And we were really talking about how to manage the conflicts in our couples. 


So, we're seeing... A lot of the same problems that couples normally have, their attachment styles, avoidant, anxious, how they were really re-enacted around their reactions to the war. There's a lot of parental stress, how to keep the kids safe. 


There were sirens going off all the time and we had to be able to explain to the kids that we were going to keep them secure. People would come to the clinic and talk about sex and they would feel very guilty. 


First of all, how can I have sex when we're bearing our dead, when there are hostages in tunnels in Gaza? And they would also say that the sexual violence that occurred re-enacted their trauma and so their past sexual trauma came up for them. 


There are a lot of different kind of emotional and psychological issues that came up early and one of them also was the sitting on of new identities. All of a sudden, you're an evacuated family or you're a hostage family or you're a Nova Festival survivor or you're bereaved parents or grandparents and sometimes you're more than one of those things and of course there are widows. 


Now, I've been to my 60s, I happen to have a couple of good friends who are widows. I think that's wrong with when you're 60 but I never thought that my two daughters, age 23 and 31 would suddenly have friends who are widows. 


I also began talking to my research colleagues and I'm not so involved in research but they are. We decided that we wanted to possibly gather data and we did some studies and we published two papers and let me tell you what we were looking to try and understand. 


So what we wanted to understand is what happens. people's need for connection, for vitality, and for sexuality, when there are all these horrible things going on existentially that can affect, certainly can affect, intimacy and sex. 


Now, Ataric, who works at Maidan, who is one of the researchers, and we've both studied PTSD, and we know that PTSD affects sex because people with PTSD have a difficult time emotionally regulating themselves, and that disrupts attachment and emotional intimacy, and PTSD happens to be an independentness factor for sexual dysfunction, which I'll explain in a minute. 


But we weren't talking about post trauma yet. This was early in the war, we were all in a state of acute stress, and this wasn't post, there was an ongoing danger all the time. So we were trying to understand if the situation that we're in, acute stress, works the same way as PTSD in terms of how it affects stress, or does being in acute stress maybe increase the need for sexuality, for connection? 


In fact, connection can be the antidote for trauma, which is disconnection. So that's the acute phase. Now we're in the ongoing phase of chronic uncertainty status and relief, and so more studies are gonna be needed to look at how that affects sex. 


So let me just first talk about for a minute about PTSD and sex, and this is from 2015, it was published in the Journal of Sexual Medicine, that I was in Al-Ran with Richard Luda, and what we did was we compared the neurophysiology of sex to the neurophysiology of PTSD, and what we found is that sexual arrest for sexual excitation involves parts of the brain and the release of chemicals that are very similar to the HPA axis fight or flight response. 


The difference is that when you don't have post-traumatic stress and you're having sex, you get excited, your blood flows, your heart rate increases, it's kind of like a stress response, but you know that you're safe because you're relaxed and excited at the same time, but you know it's like a roller coaster, you're going for a ride, but you have breaks, you have inhibitors, and the inhibitors let us know that it's safe, 


it's just sex. Now, in PTSD, your down regulators don't work very well, you don't really have the breaks, and so once you are in a state that you're physiological arousal, your limbic system, your amygdala can get very activated, and you know that you need to turn off the amygdala to retort, and then people with PTSD, the amygdala doesn't easily turn off. 


So again, we're comparing that to what happens in heat stress. So, in our first step, that we looked at acute stress symptoms, we looked at exposure to the media, and we looked at direct exposure to the trauma, and we looked at how they affected sexual distress, sexual satisfaction, and sexual dysfunction. 


And the most interesting finding, I don't have time to go into everything, but the most interesting finding was that media exposure was very highly related, even more so than direct exposure, to symptoms of sexual stress. 


And people, the more people use media, the more they were looking at images, the more they were following the news, the more sexual difficulties they reported. Now, this doesn't mean that direct exposure doesn't cause PTSD, it does. 


In this lens, that study, we can see that they did not look at sex in this study, but direct exposure is obviously predictive for PTSD. Now, in the second study, we asked about changes in sexual behavior. 


We found that about half of the people said that there was no change. A little bit less than half did report a decrease. We had a very small amount of people that actually said there was an increase. 


But when we looked at that further, that also included masturbation, and we divided it by gender, and it was more so by men. And we weren't terribly surprised by that finding, because people do use masturbation to soothe themselves when they're under stress. 


So we looked at the reasons for having less sex, and people find it both practical and emotional reasons. So practical reasons being that, well, if you're evacuated, you have your whole family in a hotel room, or if you're looking in a safe room with your entire family, you're not going to have much sex then, or if your husband went out to war, you're not going to have much sex then. 


And then there's the emotional reason, grief, loss, sadness. How can I be doing this with all this stuff going on? Now, clinically, we're seeing a great deal of variability. There's a lot of awareness of how hard this has been on couples. 


So the Army is even subsidizing couples therapy for couples, and you have to really think out of the box. Sometimes you have the partner and then the soldier partner is face-tiding in from on top of a tank. 


So what we're seeing is that some couples think emotional and physical intimacy with each other as a resource, but many are going apart. In fact, many family are going apart, because soldiers and their partners are living their lives in reality. 


Now, soldiers, we didn't study soldiers. In our study, they didn't answer questionnaires. But I can tell you from our clinical experience that soldiers are coming back with a lot of psychological and physical issues. 


which affect sex to the extent that the rehab centers in Israel are also dealing with sexual rehab within the rehab centers. So I have colleagues who are designing programs. Also because some of the injuries that physical injuries are also general injuries. 


So there's a lot of these things affect sexual desire, sexual functioning, and then obviously the physical, the sleep disorders, the hormonal changes, the high levels of the cortisol, which affect testosterone, and I could keep on going, but I don't have a lot of time. 


So what are the issues between soldiers and their partners? Well, let me talk about what the soldiers talk about. They talk about living two completely separate realities. When they are out of war, there is like state of hyper masculinity. 


And when they come home, you know, they're in a state of home kind of vulnerability, emotional intimacy. And there's a real big common dissonance between these states. And they also talk about how what they see on the battlefield is something that their partners aren't gonna be able to understand. 


So there becomes this rift where, you know, intimacy is about knowing your partner, being intimate is knowing everything about them. Suddenly there's a whole part to their lives where you're not sharing because you don't think that your partner can contain it. 


And so there becomes like this rift between the couples. There's also a lot of conflict because there's almost like a, when, you know, couples go, soldiers are going, these are not regular soldiers. A country, the entire country are soldiers. 


Everyone goes for a reserve duty. So everyone takes a turn, they go for, you know, 15 days or 30 days or three months, whatever it is. And then they come home. And then the partners are in competition, but who has it worse? 


So when the soldier comes home, the partner will say, you know, you have no idea what happened here at home and what I was doing and how I was holding up the fort. You were just like drinking coffee every day, waiting for something to happen. 


And, you know, he would say, you have no idea what I've been going through. And really, they don't. They don't have an idea of what each other is going through. The soldiers are talking about, you know, they talk about going home and having sex and they can't wait to go home and have sex. 


And then they come home and they can't move. They're emotionally numb. They can't get up off the couch. And the partners also come into the clinic and talk about, I don't know who won't have sex with me anymore or he doesn't want to have sex with me or he can't have sex with me. 


There's a lot of issues that we need to kind of deal with in terms of reconnecting and re-establishing emotional and physical. missing. So therapeutic recommendations, we want to normalize the impact of stress, we want to teach about PTSD and how it impacts people and their partners. 


We really need to communicate, talk about, validate each other's experiences, in a path to each other's experiences. Don't be afraid to share. It's okay to share because that's how we can retain and behave closest with each other. 


And of course, incorporate trauma and informed care and cosmetic therapies in the process. This is Eli Sharabi. He's standing there with his two daughters and wife. His two daughters and his wife were murdered on October 7. 


This is him coming out of activity. His brother, by the way, was also murdered. And he came home after 500 and some days. You also have here yarday and bibbas. His wife and two beautiful children were taken hostage by Hamas, and then they were also killed. 


And my question really is, will either of these two young men be able to love and make love again? And I'm gonna end with two quotes from Judith Herman. Recovery can take place only within the context of relationships. 


It cannot occur in isolation. Another quote is that sharing the traumatic experience with others is a precondition for the restitution of a meaningful world. So I wanna thank you for letting me share this. 


I appreciate the opportunity to talk about what our experience has been. Thank you. All right, we're now gonna open up the floor for questions for any of our speakers. So there are two microphones and if you all have questions, please come to the microphone. 


And what is Kefau? Kefau. And what is Kefau? Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. Kefau. That's a great question, and so people have been talking about, therapists have been talking about limiting the means. 


You don't need to see the same clip over and over again. There's not a lot of news. There's not a lot of new things happening. When you think that you care about it, you have to regulate your intake of the media. 


In the beginning, I call it war reform. That's what I just said. We've been watching too much war reform. So, you know, I think they cannot regulate and navigate the amount of listening to the media that you kill. 


I also think there's an excess that comes out in the pockets of the people who become overly obsessed. I want to thank the three of you for sharing with us, especially with everyone. for sharing with us the most intimate drama of your life. 


And as an obstetrician, I've got the colors. And as I say, it's colors. I cannot avoid to take advantage of this moment. To say something that I have repeated thousands of times in many areas and many places. 


And this is an opportunity for that. That is extremely important. Extremely important that physicians understand finally that we need to do a detailed sex on history. I have been considered an important physician for asking my patients to view and add animal sex. 


And there are sex canonical reasons to ask that. But there are medical reasons to ask that. Because I know that if I have a patient who have had animal sex, that in any way need to be judged. And she has a bad smell that is possible. 


I am in the medical condition to do not only a bad smell of the vagina, I need to do a bad smell of the red. And in my environment, nobody do that. Because nobody said, have you had animal sex? So I cannot avoid to talk about this in your case. 


Because your case is one of the most clear situations. Consumments of our eyes. Being victims of the stigmatized will in which we have been taught about sex. And we need to understand that in the same way we need to ask about the mental function, the visual function, the cardiac function, we need to ask in detail about the sexual function. 


Thank you so much for being able to talk in the way you do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know a chapter. Please. My name's Anna Peterson. I'm the OBQIN in Louisville, Kentucky. 


And I just want to thank all of you for sharing your really unique perspectives. Erin, from one cancer survivor to another, I really appreciate you. I know there are definitely other cancer survivors in the room. 


That's always been an accomplishment. Thank you. You've been so wonderful. And thank you all so much, Ollie, for sharing things. It's great that you first got to live on things. I think that is missed. 
