

I'm trying to find the top 40 contemporary FSD articles in the journal of sexual medicine. And I'm really proud to report that when I started thinking about this contemporary with me, like within the last few years, is that that was too hard. 


It really had to narrow it down to the last year. And it still had 49 contenders that I read. And so I feel really blessed that Landon asked me to represent female sexual dysfunction for JSM. There's four of us associate editors working very carefully together to evaluate what you are coming in. 


And I'm incredibly proud of the types of work that we've been publishing. Just as a disclaimer, if your paper is not one of the top three that was featured, please know that we appreciate all your papers. 


We don't publish things that are bad. We have a really good review system. We really love to break things. But I want to focus on a few different papers because of the scope and highlight some of the techniques that we use. 


So the first one I want to highlight is the efficacy of in-office lyses of clinical adhesions with excision of keratin pearls on total pain and sexual function, which is a mouthful. But as we were hearing, this has become an emerging area. 


So we've learned that just like what we can see in the foreskin and the penis, you can have a thymosis of the clitoral hood. And you can have difficulty retraping it to expose the pre-puce. And these formations of this magma, like material, maybe keratin, we don't really know what they are. 


But these are these little white dots there. And if you talk to patients that have dealt with this, I think the common thing that they say is like having a grain of sand in your clitoris. So it's not comfortable, it's often painful, and causes a great amount of sexual dysfunction. 


But why I love the highlight of this paper is because they use two different ways to evaluate this. So they did FSFI to look at before and after the procedure, which is an in-office procedure. It can be done with topical agents, lacrimal duct probes. 


a trained neurologist and a roboticologist got a college degree with this procedure in their office. So there's applicability, but we wanna make sure we're doing no harm. And so the good news was that when they looked at the quantitative values from the FSFI, many of the things improved. 


So the overall FSFI, desire, lubrication, orgasm, pain got better, self-reported clitoral pain got better, and difficulty with orgasm improved. But, you know, numbers are great. I'm a scientist, I agree with the numbers, but sometimes it's really important to hear from the patients themselves. 


And so we collected some qualitative responses from the patients, and there was this pretty common theme of that, yeah, it was painful, it was uncomfortable, it wasn't a fun thing to have done, but it was worth it. 


Some patients also need to better understand their anatomy and how to care for it, but it wasn't a process for everyone. Some people had traumatic experiences and found it painful and unnecessary, so it's really important to do this research so we know who will benefit and who will not benefit from these procedures. 


The next one I picked was Hot Topic on testosterone. We're hearing a lot about hormones. Throughout this morning, Linda talks about estrogen and progesterone. We heard from our president yesterday about testosterone. 


So there's controversy in the WHI and whether you like it or not, you know, it's important, I think, to evaluate impacts of these things. And some of these is a genetics database, and it's certainly not a perfect database, but it gives you access to large sample numbers. 


And they wanted to know if testosterone therapy would have an increased cardiovascular breast cancer risk. And so they were able to come up with about 10,000 patients in each group, either having had a topical or injected testosterone or controls, and they found that the risk of cardiovascular effects, DVT, pulmonary embolism, breast neoplasm all went down. 


Their pseudosome or periness went up. It's not really surprising we're talking about testosterone. So that's pretty encouraging. They also did some analysis with some different age ranges. So 18 to 55 years old. 


So not necessarily menopausal patients. And again, they saw the same thing, smaller set, but the risks generally went down or could not be assessed or were equivocal. The only thing that went up again is your pseudosome. 


And then they also looked at patients that are largely menopausal, 56 and above, and the risk for equivocal or reduced. So in, you know, all in all, it looks like this might be safe. Definitely not the only study. 


I think we need to continue doing studies, but I think it's an topic that we need to explore because we don't want testosterone. It's very important for female sexual function. And then the last one that I want to highlight here is what are future doctors learning about sex? 


I think this is a big part where it all has to start, that we have to have better conversations with individuals that are seeking care because there's this literature out there that shows that the patient is coming to the office or waiting for their provider, whether it's an MD or an MP. 


whoever it is, to ask them about their sexual function dysfunction. And of course the doctor is waiting for the patients to bring it up so no one ever talks about it. And we need to better equip our physicians and our care providers to have these conversations. 


And so this doesn't apply everywhere, it's just northeastern U.S. But they went and looked at a variety of medical schools. They got the syllabi, and so they had schools A through J, and they looked at a variety of different topics that they thought were important to cover. 


And two, here at the bottom, really got no attention, and based on some conversations we had already about GSL, gentile urinary symptoms of lactation, is that we did talk about sexuality, pro-sportum, unsurprising. 


And they also did talk about oral conditions, which I studied oral conditions, so I wasn't really thrilled to see that. I think school A got invaded because it did amazing across the board. Wherever the school is, I guess that's where we all need to go, because we're covering all those topics. 


But there were other deficiencies, so things like the psychosocial influences of sexuality, which we know are really important in female sexual function and male sexual dysfunction. Sexual dysfunction in general really wasn't covered well, nor sexuality is non-more than groups, so we really need to do a bit better. 


And then they wanted to take this a step further and see how does the education for male versus female sexual function change. And so essentially, they were seven times more likely to cover male erectile dysfunction versus female erectile dysfunction, and they were twice as likely to cover the physiology of the penile erection versus total engorgement. 


So there are definitely a lot of ways we need to improve here on this. So just in the last couple minutes here, I told you this job was really, really hard, so I wanted to highlight a couple of honorable mentions. 


So this was a study that was some analysis that came out of a larger sedentical preem study for female sexual arousal disorder. They planned to do this, and what they did is they compared one month recall versus 24 hour recall. 


So a lot of times when we're doing studies like this and we want to know about sexual function, we're asking for 24 hour diaries, and many of us know that that is very cumbersome, we're all very busy, and don't necessarily have time to diary that every day. 


And they found that there was no difference between one month recall and 24 hours. It was a small sample set, so when maybe with more we could see a difference, but it's at least worth mentioning that these are things that we can consider. 


There was a group in Brazil working hard to develop a vaginal penetration scale. It's currently in Portuguese, so it won't be applicable to all populations, but I think that having more standardized scales to assess sexual function and dysfunction are really, really important. 


And then we had one that was an examination of sexual function distress among sexual minorities and heterosexual women seeking care at menopause and sexual health specialty clinics. Unfortunately, you know, when we're talking about sexual minorities, have a smaller set of people to work with, but I think this is really important. 


Just because there aren't as many people out there doesn't mean we need to stop engaging in this type of research and then really representing everyone. This issue is just not always providing sexuality for everybody. 


And let us just want to highlight this. This was an interesting nine-year longitudinal survey, so it's very, very big data that goes out that long, looking at how a healthy lifestyle can support future sexual satisfaction. 


The data sets a little bit old, which is why it didn't come to the top of the pile for me, but I think that right now, in these times of stress and uncertainty throughout the world, and we're feeling it here at home, is that we have to remember that we have to take a few minutes out for self-care. 


We need to take care of ourselves and be good to ourselves because the big consequence of such is less sexual satisfaction. So... I think we all need to remember to take good care of ourselves and I'm just, you know, so glad to be here with all my friends and colleagues. 


It's my great pleasure to get to do a spotlight on the central medicine reviews, which is one of the orthogonals we are talking through today. So if we can get out of slides for a spotlight on the central medicine reviews while we get those up. 


Central medicine reviews publishes evidence-based in-depth reviews of basic science and clinical practice, which includes sexual health, sexual functioning and dysfunctioning, and sexual medicine across all genders. 


Central medicine reviews is targeted at the sexual medicine researcher, training practitioner, but it's also extremely useful for the general practitioner who might need a high expert review of research on a specific topic within sexual medicine. 


So the paper that I'm going to be highlighting today was from our July 2024 issue and the QR code here will take you to this paper titled Unveiling Silenced Narratives of Scoping Review on Sexual Function Challenges in migrant and refugee women. 


I don't think I have to tell anybody in the international society that we live in an increasingly diverse world. While there have been a number of reviews describing the effects of culture or race on sexual functioning or clinical guidelines for cultural sensitivity when treating racially minoritized patients, these often do not distinguish between native born and immigrant populations. 


And this is a substantial gap in literature because immigrant groups have unique sexual healthcare needs stemming from different life experiences, stressors, cultural attitudes, social and religious cultures, languages, access to care and so on. 


systematic review pulled together the existing literature on immigrant and refugee women using Prisma guidelines to evaluate a really broad scope of a variety of databases, including great literatures that include unpublished thesis and so on. 


And they focused their review on reproductive age women and studies that used at least one specific measure of female sexual functioning. Despite an impressively broad scope of their search terms, in the inclusion of over 6,000 potential articles, the authors found only 12 articles that assessed sexual functioning in migrant or refugee women, which really strongly underscores how starkly limited this literature is, 


and of those 12, they noted that most used tools that were not validated in the population that they were assessing, which is a real limitation of this literature. Most of the papers that these authors found were conducted in migrants to the U.S. 


and Canada. particularly about Asian and Latino populations, but they also included a few papers from migrants and asylum seekers in Belgium and to the Netherlands. The authors synthesized their findings into four themes with common, the common findings that are highlighted here. 


So theme one centered on the relatively low sexual pleasure and satisfaction that was described amongst the migrant women, largely stemming from low sexual knowledge. However, the authors really highlighted that there was a high degree of diversity of knowledge across populations and even within a population, really highlighting the need to directly assess our patient's background before we make any assumptions about their sexual knowledge. 


Theme two centered on the higher rates of sexual desire and arousal problems reported by migrant women, but also described how these problems were not universally considered distressing. And that points to a need for us in the clinical side to check our assumptions about what normal sexual functioning looks like in other cultures and focus our interventions on those problems that are identified by the patient as orienting further care. 


Theme three described research showing more generally conservative attitudes towards sexuality among migrant women. And the authors noted that migrant women may feel less in control of their own sexuality, particularly during the migration process, particularly if they come from a more sexually restrictive culture. 


And kind of relatedly, in theme four, they described research on acculturation, finding that generally higher acculturation to the mainstream culture, which in the case of most of these articles would be higher acculturation to white American culture, but that's associated with more liberal sexual attitudes and higher self-reported sexual functioning. 


On the other hand, lower mainstream acculturation is a make-it-ribute to higher anxiety and non-sexuality, but specifically the authors highlighted, related to theme three, that if women perceive that in order to be accepted in their new host culture, if they feel that they're being pressured to experience sexuality in a particular way that doesn't align with their heritage culture, that this can lead to significantly greater sexual anxiety and that that is the mechanism that contributes to the reduced sexual functioning. 


I thought that was a really interesting point. So the clinical recommendations that the authors put forward based on this, they know repeatedly throughout the review, they need for more and better research to guide clinical care for migrant women, but a few recommendations that they make. 


So firstly, following the findings of this high heterogeneity of prior sexual knowledge among migrant women, it's imperative that we assess our patients' understanding of their bodies, how they work, and their perceptions of what they've been causing any of the sexual problems that they do have. 


It's also important that we assess directly their prior history of sexual health care, including prior histories of health care discrimination. because the answers to those questions have been critically informed how we have conversations about sexuality. 


Likewise, it's important to approach patient education with humility and sensitivity. Normalizing that patients are likely to have questions that are reasonable to address with a medical provider, as many of these women did not come from cultures where such discussions would be the normal in a medical setting, so even just setting the expectation that it's okay to talk about this in this setting, 


continue a world of wonder to be able to create that space for conversation. The authors also described that many micro women feel this real push pull when it comes to both their heritage and their kind of push to assimilate into a mainstream culture, the need to fit into both of these cultures. 


This culture of stress leads to feeling particular anxiety and guilt when describing a sexual problem that she perceives is not common in the host culture, feeling very ashamed or guilty about that, or feeling pressured to participate in sex in ways that don't align with her heritage background. 


We can do so much to normalize that sexual pleasure absolutely is a right without sending the message that she has to achieve that pleasure in any particular way. And finally, the authors call for the greater use of culturally sensitive assessment tools, but also the dearth of such measures. 


I will note that here in the U.S., we have an incredible group of measures that if you scan this QR code, it will take you to the promise measures. They are run by the NIH, and they include a variety of well-validated measures of sexual functioning that have been translated into a number of languages, including Spanish, Arabic, Chinese, Korean, Hebrew, and French. 


They are free, they have been both linguistically and culturally validated. So if you follow that code, you can go to where you can download those measures and their translations, and information on their validation for free. 


Thank you so much. Applause Well, again, it's good to be with you. Just a couple of housekeeping items. So, the conclusion of my remarks, on your calendar you have the in actual draft day to meet the ISSM leadership. 


If you figure that Ish wishes your family, ISSM is kind of like her if you're in-laws or your extended family. So, meeting the weird cousins, the uncles, all of that at the end of the hall, and outside of one and two, which was Dr. 


The second evening, I think maybe completely reminisce, and, you know, we platformed a million times, you don't have to clap again, but the Goldstein's have done such an amazing job of rolling all of this. 


When you look from a journal standpoint, you know, they started JSM, essentially, and then after that they went to SMR, so they've essentially done everything to get this going. One of the things that I could love to steal from them, you know, as far as trademark advice is, this is your journal. 


If you want this to succeed, if you want somewhere to publish, you want somewhere to have this opportunity to engage with one another, it's really with the insurance. So, this is short journal. We're just the stewards of it. 


We're trying to keep the house clean, trying to keep the paragraph out so that you can come and you can do your Airbnb, you know, anytime you want to go. We're gonna jump into some of these things. These are some numbers that you'll always get to see, and we'll go into a few of them. 


So, impact factors 3.3. The way impact factors are calculated is how many times does a paper get cited versus how many papers do we have? So, if we publish 2,000 papers and all of them get cited at once, then your impact factor's gonna be one. 


So, now that's part, our responsibility is we want to keep this high enough that it's a reputable journal, something that you're gonna want to publish in. And on the left side, we want to take as many articles as we can so that you have somewhere to publish for different things. 


So, it's this balancing act that we have to maintain and then it's a challenge. Now, when you look at actual volume, we're gonna just surpass 1,000 articles submitted this year that get some big stuff. 


And the last two editions, we have over 20 each, and so the biggest issue we've ever had is a huge number of articles coming through. And when you compare against other nephrology and neurology journals, JSN, whether or not, is number four as far as number of citations. 


So, journal, neurology number one, neurology number two, BJU number three, and then JSN. So, that's the total number of citations. That's not necessarily the impact factor, but we're a big entity. We've got a lot of impressive numbers behind these journals. 


Now, on your matches, some of you may have noticed you got whole stickers. There's just something fun about public shaming and public recognition that still drives us even in our 40s, 50s, 60s and so on. 


So, there's two different things. You've got a publisher and a reviewer one. And published in the journal, we want to recognize you. And thank you for putting the time and energy in and choosing JSN. 


So, you get the whole sticker. So, you got JSN, publisher, if you did three different... more publications last year, your goal open in silver and bronze, and then same for reviewers. If you review 10 plus papers, you're a gold reviewer, and you get a special sticker and recognition, and in the future we'd also like to pop your game up there just so that again, thank you for all your time and effort. 


Okay, this is the key take-home of my two minutes, which is if you say, what does it take to get published, but what are we looking for is this. Now, I know nothing about it. You can ask me how you can ask this, but I know how to pick good ones, and so we've got Megan, we've got Adam, we've got Leo, and we've got Enes, who are wonderful, and every paper that you submit, they do a high-level summary of it. 


Just take five minutes, go through these four factors, and score it. I then take that score and say, okay, if you're above this threshold, we're going to send it out to reviewers. This is good, and it's almost for sure going to get accepted. 


If it's in this middle range, and for me, that threshold is 2.5 to 4, then we're going to recommend that you submit it as a dinner article type for this. for the sake of playing the games and impact factors. 


And if it's below 2.5, we're just gonna say, sorry, thank you, let's try a different article for you. So number one is it novel. If we have five of these published this year, you may have the best paper in the world, but it's not novel, it's not novel, and so it's gonna score lower there. 


Is it interesting? If you pick up the journal, you can actually open it and read it. If you are, then it's gonna be scored more highly there. Are the methods appropriate? Are you making these crazy conclusions that your methods could never improve, or the methods are, well, we went to a Facebook group and we had 9% to respond to the survey. 


It's just gonna be hard to publish that, no matter what, and so on. And then does it actually change practice or alter the paradigm? If you're gonna change practice, we wanna have the journal. I don't even care if the writing is horrible, let's throw it through Jack GTP, whatever the case, but if it's gonna change the paradigm, let's get it in there. 


And along those lines, feel free to email me and say, hey, this is an important paper, you projected it, let's send it to some other people to take a look at. And we just score one to five. Five is top 5%, one is bottom 5%, and the version of the illness is the score that everybody gets for it. 


Now, if you fall in that gray zone, where it's not quite high enough where we say, hey, let's keep this as an original article, we created these other articles. So, brief communication is, well, I've only got 40 people in my series, but I still think this is important. 


It's gonna be hard for us to get 300. That's where we walk out of them. Complications in cases. Weird random complications that we saw come in. We're only gonna get two of these. First time I've ever seen it, and I do a ton of this. 


Perfect, that's good for expert opinion. I have a soap box, and I have an opinion, and I want to stand on it. Just make sure you've published before. I don't want this random, crazy, evil opinions. Like, you gotta be an authority on this, on the topic. 


How I do it is, this is invited only, but we're basically gonna send it out to the top people who publish in an area, and say, well, how do you do A, B, or C, and throw it all together in one compiled document. 


Innovations, you're designing a new theory, a new concept, something that's never been done before. Great. throw it in there, you don't have to have 100 people that you've broken on, that you want to be the first to say hey, we met at this new crazy technique, that's where we want to put that one. 


And then surveys, surveys just never are super impactful, whether it's phone survey or NHANES or whatever the case, and so they're never going to reach that real high level of impact, but we want to place the footage still, and so surveys is the side of that. 


All of them have the criteria on the right there, so they're smaller, they're quicker to put together, they still count as a PubMed index publication, but they're real strict on requirements for it. Now the reason we're playing these games is it doesn't count as our denominator of the impact factor, it won't negatively hurt us, it won't hurt our impact factor, but we can still get it published and still get things going for it. 


Okay future, so we have some major initiatives coming 2025, they're little secrets, we can't tell them yet, but they're going to come out and we'll send a bunch of emails, so when that happens, we want to make it easier for you to shift between journals too. 


If we reject one and say hey, consider this other one, we're going to try to make it so you don't have to resubmit everything from scratch. We also want to make the experience easier. If we don't care about the info, we're going to try to remove it from the submission portal and make it easier. 


And then we want to highlight your work form, where you have a chance to throw together a video after and then we can post it and make it so that it's more engaging for people as well. So these are all things we're working on on our end. 


Finally, just to highlight, so PsycFST and LGBTQI Plus papers are challenging micro-viewers. I had an email yesterday to 31 people before we got our first review back for the paper. So we had to invite 31 people. 


Because of that, it took 90 days to get to that point where we had one review back. So we are so, so, so, so sorry if it's taken a long time to get through the review process. It's just part of the academic piece and we're trying to get creative on ways to make this a little bit faster, easier along those lines. 


If you want this to succeed and you want more FST published, you want more PsycFST published, please help us on our review side so we can keep things moving and things going through. And then again, let me know how we can improve things on the middle child. 


I just want you all to be happy, so let me know if there's anything we can improve there. And then, thank you for reviewing and publishing with us. Back to the session. So, again, this is now a great time for about 15 minutes. 
