

Thank you for coming in, and I'm sure you'll all be very excited to work with the conversation. Thank you. Well, welcome everybody. If we could put up the first slide. My name is Jerry Brock, and I'm absolutely honored to be here with you today, and to be moderating this illustrious panel of world-class speakers. 


We're going to be talking about the unmet sexual and support piece of female partners who have been diagnosed with prostate cancer. So raise your hand. How many of you treat couples who are undergoing sexual concerns related to prostate cancer treatment? 


Okay, about a third. And how many of you see women who have partners who have prostate cancer? A large group. This is exactly the sort of program that I think, and the audience that we want to talk to and interact with, and I can tell you, that we're going to have time in the end where we'll have questions and answers. 


It doesn't look like my remote is working. So, if we could just go back one slide, please. Thank you. So, we have Anne-Marie Giralding, who is going to be talking to us. She has a, obviously, she has a huge experience here, past president here, society psychiatrist from Europe, Daniel Whitman, who is actually the first author, senior author of the guidelines to deal with sexual health issues after prostate cancer treatment. 


John Mulhall, who is a neurologist of international reputation, has been dealing with prostate cancer couples for three decades now. I'm a neurologist from Canada, and my role is going to be therapy minor as a timekeeper. 


How many of you raised your hands have actually read or seen or are aware of these sexual health guidelines that have been published now about two years ago? Terrific. Very small numbers. Well, I can tell you that after today's session, you are going to be intimately aware of some of the key points and the importance of this resource that I think all of you should have a look at, because it is absolutely critical to optimizing care of couples after this prostate cancer and treatment for prostate cancer. 


No big surprise to any of you, probably, that statement one is there's 47 statements. Statement one is probably the most critical. And John's going to go into great detail about what statement one says. 


But basically, we think couples who are going through the treatment pathway with a diagnosis of prostate cancer should have a discussion with their clinicians about sexual concerns and sexual problems that relate to their treatment and their disease. 


They really are the first sexual health guidelines that have ever been developed for cancer patients. And all of us, I think in this room, are aware that regardless of whether it's prostate cancer, bowel cancer, breast cancer, sexual issues develop. 


Patients' identities change. Their view of their body image changes. Their relationships and their partners change. And so this is the first sexual health guideline for patients and partners with prostate cancer. 


And I think that's so important that it was developed, and the other deserves a huge round of applause for that. So a huge thanks to all of you. Now, this joint meeting between Ishwish and ISSM is absolutely fantastic. 


Because I can tell you, I'm learning so much about female partners and female sexual health that this isn't the first meeting I've attended, of course. But I can tell you that the combination with the international side of the world... 


is really critical to our organization. But some too is our recent partnership with World Record. Well, that, of course, is a group that's been really at the forefront of promoting knowledge related to the effects of prostate cancer on patients and their partners. 


Started about 15 years ago, and this partnership that we have with them has let us help understand the importance of the guidelines worldwide. Certainly cancer has a huge effect on lifespan, and I just wanted to use this slide to point out that many of us look at prostate cancer as being a fairly benign cancer, a fairly benign diagnosis. 


In fact, it is a major source of mortality and a huge source of morbidity for men with that diagnosis. So it's an important problem. If you could, take up your phones now and just scan and skew our code. 


There's a questionnaire that is attached to your code. And we'd love for you to fill it out. It is so critical to the talks that we give, the messages that we provide, and mostly to understand what information education you need to help improve your patients' lives and their partners' lives. 


And so using this survey and completing the survey is absolutely an essential part of today's meeting and today's seminar. So just go ahead and scan it. The poll will give us insights into central health guidelines that exist, resources that you may launch or need, and other aspects of this presentation moving forward. 


So I think we get a good sense here because you were asking about, who's the audience? What do they know? What do they need to know? Well, I think it shows us that about half have partners who have sexual dysfunction from prostate cancer, other forms of cancer, and about a third are actively involved in the couple. 


And this is really novel thinking for mainstream dental care, that you worry about the partner or about the effect of a diagnosis in their partner and their sexual function, and what role the partner, typically female partner, in this presentation. 


But of course, we understand that there are always female partners. But you know, what does that play out? How do we manage, how do we optimize this level? So over the next 10 or 15 minutes, John's going to share with us sex after prostate cancer therapy, the conversation. 


Dr. Mahler. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My pleasure to be here. I am a meteorologist. I'm a meteorologist. I spent 30 years of my life devoted to sexual removal and reproductive medicine. 


I was actually turned my girl into an all-state. So a long time ago, a girl was a little stronger than me. And I work at a cancer center. So I'm an uncle sexologist. And I see about 600 post-prosthetic mutations about 150 radiation patients. 


And in the year 2023, I saw 150 triple-therapy patients. surgery, all my life. radiation fall back one month ago. So prostate cancer is a huge part of my clinical and my research practice. These are my disclosures. 


So pelvic urological and pedagogical cancers are common. So I think some of the things I've seen today have an entire round of words also to radical pelvic surgery. Sex is a multifaceted activity and to play well in a lot of these weeks of chemo-centrism. 


We must know the whole way from the penis-focused concept. And this is not so much speaking to you, but it's certainly speaking to oncologists and to male patients. The concept that I have a penis, I must get an erection, and that is the entirety of the sexual relationship and sexual dynamics is false and it's penis sex. 


Want to reintroduce you, or perhaps introduce you, to the sins of sexual medicine. The things we want to protect ourselves against, what we see in men and women or couples with sexual problems. We don't want to be ageist. 


We don't want to project our own sexual morals onto our patients. No judgement, no intolerance. We don't want to be apathetic, especially in a cancer space. And if you're an oncologist, I would be saying, you must not be apathetic towards your patients. 


But, funnily, and I just added this recently, is the content of obsessive oncocentrism. And perhaps that would be in hardly cancer doctors, but the focus of the prostate cancer space, and everything is PSA focus that blood tests the screen for, and thermometer their after treatment. 


And in fact, there's a whole call-in-one concept that you're not paying attention to Mr. or Dr. oncologist. And I've used a lot of parentalism when it comes to oncocentrism. I'm the doctor, I make a decision for you. 


I say to patients, you think your doctor's going to tell you what you need to hear, and in fact, your doctor will tell you what they think you need to hear. You need to decide what you need to hear, and communicate that to your physician. 


This is a fairly dynamic slide about the barriers to discussing erectile dysfunction, or other sexual dysfunction. Patient embarrassed with shame, ignorance, cultural belief, religious beliefs and discomfort, and on the physician side, discomfort. 


Yes, the average physician gets about two hours in sexual health education during medical school, lack of knowledge, personal biases, and the time spent in clinical practice. These are sexual dysfunction in patients with prostate cancer and prostate cancer. 


You see them listed, I'm not going to go through them in great detail, but you'll see huge ranges in the fragrances. Sometimes that's related to whether or not they're wrong or negative. All medication and all hormone therapy. 


And sometimes it's just representative of discrepancies in the literature of the population study. you can see them here. I went into a Google search a few months ago and I looked at searching for these topics while multiple literature, post-prosthetic technique, post-radiation focuses on erectile dysfunction. 


You can see the high-volume searches are not going to be erectile dysfunction or dysfunction space at all. They're in chains and orgasm. They're in low sex crime. They're in key line alterations. So we need to move away from pino-centric focus in post-prosthetic, cancer-sexual dysfunction. 


This is Chris Nazzo-Dale with me, and this is looking at men who have erectile dysfunction, have recovery erectile dysfunction, add to the prostatectomy, and they remain bothered. Even though they have recovery erectile function, they remain bothered communicating to us that there are other sexual problems that must be at play. 


statement 1 is generally already alluded to. A clinician who initiated this question should be conducted with patient and partner. And now we'll reiterate this figure along. The majority of the statements in the guidelines include that patient and partner, if partner and culturally important, to educate them about realistic expectations, the impact across cancer therapy, surge of age, hormone therapy, 


on patient sexual culture, partner sexual experience, and a coupled sexual relationship. I won't leave the rest of the statement for you, but I'm emphasizing with the statement that the guidelines are very coupled-centric. 


This is a review, questioning until 140 euro-long-term conflicts in the bladder cancer space, providing patient, providing reported barriers to sexual health, counseling of female patients, undergoing radical suspectivity, a radical pelvic operation outside of the prostate cancer space, but still a radical pelvic surgery. 


And you can see, number one, older patient age, ageism. And if you read down this list, there are several of the sins in sexual medicine that appear on this list. And if you look at this slide from the same analysis, and you look at the yellow bars, which is a female patient, and if you look at second row down, baseline sexual function, what's the assessment of baseline sexual function? 


You'll see a man goes two-thirds or thereabouts, but look how uncommon this is in women. And likewise, we're talking about risk of post-operative sexual dysfunction. Women were almost never counseled about that. 


This is a, what I'm going to do right now, is that it's a randomized controlled trial that communicates to the physicians that if you engage with patients in assessing and discussing the quality of life, irrespective of what the outcome is, patients are happier. 


The fact that you engage with them in talking about their quality of life is an important factor. Staying between a lot of patients and partners. should be advised that psychological stress, including grief and mourning about sexual losses resulting from sexual side effects on prostate cancer therapies, can be experienced by patients after prostate cancer therapy and by their partners, and that this distress can be mitigated with appropriate biopsychosocial rehabilitation strategies. 


Conversation. I think you're probably married to me with this if you're in clinical practice. If you're a trainee, perhaps you're not, in general, in an appropriate environment, which wildly views is up to you and your practice, whether it's pleasant or loud. 


If you've time to integrate open-ended questions, I think that's fantastic. In routine neurological practice, that's a great challenge. You need to define the goals of a patient, partner, and couple. 


It's a critical step. It's the first question I ask. Mr. Jones, why are you today turning into goals? What do you want to accomplish by talking to John Mulhall the oncosexologist? Appreciating the relational aspects. 


It's not all about patience. It's about the couple in sexual medicine. Understanding the multi-domain structure of sexual order and define the source of magnitude of the sexual satisfaction in that couple. 


If I can fix one thing for you today, Mr. Anderson Jones, what would that be? We're going to finish up talking about the skip. The questionnaire that we validated with Stacy L, Fabio and Whitman. Sexual concerns of the partner of the patient with prostate cancer, female, because, of course, her male or MSN population. 


This is just the rest of the female partner. I would love to see you give consideration to looking to utilize this questionnaire in your practices if you have females in your practice who have partners, male partners, with prostate cancer. 


So this is a questionnaire validated, fully validated, published in the literature, and these are the names. These are the names of the female-oriented sexual concerns. Distress. Six questions. Loss of connection, after communication, discomfort with communication. 


Frustration with sexual counseling, expansion with sexual repertoire, and then non-penetrated relations. And these are the themes of the partners, the female partners communicating to us in concept, elicitation interviews, your cognitive interviewing, and this questionnaire is fully validated. 


I'll go through very briefly how much time Jerry and I are going to go through in time. So I want to do these questions with you, just to give you a flavor, is the final instrument. I'm experiencing distress related to the sexual changes from the prostate cancer diagnosis and are driven, classified, from the likelihood scale. 


I'm satisfied with the current state of my sex life, with my partner, so it's the prostate cancer diagnosis and or treatment. It can be used freely and post-freely. My sexual needs are urgently met. My sex life is worse since the prostate cancer diagnosis and oral treatment. 


I feel a loss of intimacy from my partner since the prostate cancer diagnosis and oral treatment. My partner avoids intimate situations since the prostate cancer diagnosis and oral treatment. The classic male response to sexual dysfunction, avoidance. 


Often perceived as low sex life with avoidance, it's such a frustrating event for me not to go home. I just don't even participate, and that has bad news to Cleveland for the partner. I feel as physically attractive to my partner since the prostate cancer diagnosis and oral treatment. 


I felt more isolated from my partner since he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. I feel invisible to my partner since he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. This concept of being ignored and the visibility came through again and again in the cognitive interviews. 


Not just by the partners, but by the clinicians in the room. A famous prostate cancer, a radiational, a prostate surgeon, no inclusion of a partner. My partner, I'm less close since the prostate cancer was about in films. 


I tell my partner how I feel about my own sex life. My partner tells me how he feels about my own sex life. I put a comfortable talk with my partner about her sexual problems. I received the satisfaction explanation of the sexual side effects of prostate cancer, procedures, and her treatments. 


There was a big theme, a big recurrent theme about, or not getting enough education and information. I'm frustrated and worry about the lack of information we receive about sexual health. I felt prepared about the sexual side effects. 


I'm comfortable trying new ways to achieve sexual satisfaction, outside of intercourse, the concept of sexual intercourse. We become more flexible in how we mistake physical intimacy. I'm satisfied with hugging, kissing, and other intimate activities, rather than sexual intercourse. 


So in summary, partner inclusion is critical to outcomes optimization. The goal of the sexual medicine commission is to return the patient, or the couple, or it will exist with satisfactory sexual activity, relations as defined by the couple. 


Sex after prostate cancer therapy will be different for the patient and the partner, likely for the rest of her sex lives. And need for the skin that exists, or has to cancer treatment has an impact on female and partner sexual health. 


The skin that can be used to create and post treatment. Questionnaires rely on that of being in a USA population. And we would love you to ask the question and consider it using this questionnaire going forward. 


Thank you very much. Thank you. So for those of you, thank you, John, that was wonderful. For those of you who came in later, please, if you can just scan the QR code, there's a survey. We'd love for you to fill out. 


It will help us modify our... programing, presentations, give us insight into what we need to augment the resources to help you do a better job. Next, Anne-Marie Giraldi is here to talk about focusing on years of, not just years of life, but adding... 


That makes sense. That's my last one. Thanks, Joan. My last last one. Okay, that's his last last one. That's the way they do in New York. Any of you can say thank you? Okay. 
